##VINCENT

Their council decided what to do with me before Ram had even bothered to kick the sun into the sky. I felt like I was once again thought of as the Sephim. Except this was Sephasia, where you could get away with murder by handing a sack of gold over to a watchman. Of course, this was after they threw me into and kicked me out of a variety of stone-walled prison cells, tossing buckets of frigid water on my face to keep me awake, all within the span of six hours.

My eyelids were heavy and dull when they put me outside, perhaps as a final destination. It was cold. I found that I was locked in a wet and gloomy prison cell. It was like the yellow moss lining its interior was growing steadily by the hour, creeping along the soppy cobblestone beneath and over the pitch-dark ceiling.

It eventually came to me that the space was connected to a wide room lined with leather seats. A theater. They weren't going to publicize my execution, were they?

Amid my brief sessions of nearly falling asleep, on numerous instances, I thought I could hear various tumults of growls and other strange noises. But perhaps the warm fluid dribbling in from above my head was playing tricks on me.

Once, when I squinted my eyes, my eyes made out the silhouette of a fattened Woltir lying soundly on its stomach. I brought myself back with a jolt.

The beast whined and licked its talons on the other side as if waiting. I felt like I had traveled back in time.

Occasionally, the winged beast would approach my cell to try and bite through the towering steel, the only thing stopping my flesh from being torn to bits. I could smell its fishy, feathery scent from where my wrists and ankles were bound.

About an hour after I saw *it*, the sun began to lift into the exposed sky. Its rays crept in from the jagged cavity on the window topping the theater like the leather hat of a field worker. Everything looked like it was painted in a green wash and held to dry over a stretch of rusting metal. It didn't make the scenery less horrifying.

I was seated in a wooden chair that felt wet and splintery beneath my palms. I was in my outfit from earlier---a dress shirt and a nice pair of pants, now covered in this strange black substance in various areas.

"No man deserves to be put out like this. He was only serving his land," went one of the men that had gathered around me. I had forgotten they were there. He was clothed in a worn pair of yellow jeans and his feet were disproportionately large. His hands were slung into the pockets of his denim, occasionally venturing upward to adjust his cap. Nobody dressed like that in Astor. "Shut up," went another, "he'll kill everyone when we let 'em go. So we give him to Angel for questioning."

The Woltir was dark with a white area around its eyes, which were each crowned in a flurry of red dots, drops of blood flecked onto bone. Its talons themselves were the length of my legs, its entire body twice the size of mine.

I moved my head slightly and made a few of the men flinch. Perhaps they thought I had grown unconscious.

"He's well," went one of them, a woman's voice. She was wrapped in the hood of her dark coat, which sealed her eyes away into the warm morning dusk, hanging just slightly above her knees. She wore an ivory blouse beneath it with a green tie fixed around her slender neck. Her voice was unnaturally sharp. "You would have all gone to the weeds by now, if Nico and Eli didn't turn 'em in."

Her eyes flickered to mine, glinting.

"Get him ready for Angel," said the woman, her red smirk creeping out of her shroud as she sat on the velvet chair behind them, her back now facing us. There was something strange hiding under the chair. It was a stuffed doll, a white one, lying by a needle and spool. I wrinkled my nose at the sight. *Imagine playing with your doll and ending up here.*

One of the figures reached for a glass bottle screwed shut with a single cork. He poured some of its liquid contents out onto the surface of his palm. Its texture was like thin honey that had been poured over a skillet and heated over a fire, quickly oozing out of its lid.

The man strode over, rubbing his oiled palms, releasing a scent like white roses. He spread them out and began lathering the flowery substance over my face and the rest of my upper body. His hands were even colder than the arena, like marble, but the rose oil was warm. I had no idea about what was going to happen. My gaze kept traveling over to the turned-away woman in the black coat and at the wounded beast pacing around in its cage, loudly squawking and smacking its jaws from where it was.

When he was finished, the woman turned and gestured for them to leave.

"Guess what, Vincent?" she smiled. The woman sat dropped herself into a sumo-squat and laced her fingers together, her head slightly tilted, her face still sheathed. "We're going to bring you the person you've been looking for."

She said this, then stood and paced out of the cell, her heels clicking behind her as she walked.

I waited for the small door at the entrance to creak open, but nothing happened. I kept waiting. Out of boredom, I pointed my chin to the door and gazed up at the sky, giving names to the stars. Needless to say, it was beautiful. I had hardly seen stars in Astor for an obvious reason. But I did not dare pray to anyone. The second I did, I would have given up.

I glanced over at the Woltir, who was licking its paws and whining with hunger. I would live. That was what the prophecy told, right?

"I apologize for keeping you awaiting," murmured a lazy voice. I found that it belonged to a tall man, his hair the color of ash under the greenish lights. I did not hear him enter the room.

He was dressed in an off-white tunic with ruffled sleeves, perhaps cheaply fashioned from linen. His wavy hair fell to his chin, which was sharp, almost pointed. His eyes were this off-putting deep brown color. His face was so chiseled, it was like a bog of dark smoke was encompassing them. I could see the sheathed dagger innocently looming at his belt like a gray hive of bumblebees lurking atop a . His smile was sure to piss anyone off.

The man's hands were pocketed and his shoulders were loose with a dreadful amount of comfort. This was the man I spoke with briefly from the other day. *Angel*.

"I have a few questions to begin with," he yawned, sitting down on the chair the cloaked woman was once seated at, folding his arms and crossing his legs.

He gestured over to the Woltir. "First of all, we're going to let you live. The Woltir is just there for intimidation."

I tried not to seem comforted by that idea. I tried to make it look like the Woltir never bothered me to begin with. Slowly, Angel moved himself down atop the wooden chair, resting his chin on his intertwined fingers, crossing his legs and getting himself comfortable. "You don't look like you're ready to leave. You look like you want to stay." His eyes widened as the word 'stay' left his mouth. Then he went back to smirking with blatant contempt.  

"Secondly," he began, holding out two of his fingers, "where is your friend, the other one that was with you?"

I did not answer.

Angel's eyes softened and he began to smile. "I will ask you again. Where's Marcus?"

I flinched at the sound of his name, casually rolling off of his tongue. This time, he reached under the chair for the unfinished doll beneath, spool and all. He seized the needle and pressed it into the doll's arm.

Suddenly, my left arm felt like it was being snapped in half and chewed up, tossed out by a bird at the same time, burning up and sending white-hot lashes of pain coursing through my body. I let out a scream, and then another. And another.

Then, the pain came to a halt. "Where is Marcus Zau?"

"Tell me why you're keeping me alive."

Angel's grin grew wider. "Ah. I am letting you out after questioning because you are needed to finish this *thing* us Sephasi officials are scheming."

"What?"

He held his finger up to his lips. "That's a secret. Telling you would ruin everything. And it wasn't my idea, it was Thalia's." I pictured Thalia, her eyes looming over her study, devising a plan to take the head of the king and vengeance on the people that betrayed Sephis. Why did Nico choose to switch sides? Because Sehpasia was wealthier?

I should have known it was Thalia. The thoughts I once had about our conversations and shared responsibilities had gone sour. She had taken the lives of twelve innocent Astorgans. Whether she was Sephis or not was out of the question. Although...I still wasn't sure if I wanted to take her life.

"You know, I don't like you, Vincent." Angel was no longer smiling as he was. "I really don't like you. But I'll release you. Just tell me where Marcus is."

__
"So you lied to them," whistled Marcus, grinning, his voice wavering as we ran. Our feet beat loudly against the wet cobblestone of the dungeon as we made our way up its broad and spiraling steps. Perhaps water had been spilled. It was either that, or the lukewarm liquid was something else. My spine frisked at the thought.

"Yeah. That's exactly what I did."

"I'm guessing they're after your ass, now."

"They must be," I shrugged. The steps grew narrower until our heads faded out of the darkness and peeped into the dimly lit palace.

We stumbled upon an area framed with polished sandalwood. The wood only stopped at the delicate stone frieze above, which was engraved beautifully with the names of dead political figures. The sandalwood released a stiff and leathery scent as we crept along the carpeted path. The rug was dyed a blushing brown, seeping into a hot, blazing sanguine the further we went. The narrow hall was fervent with the lights dribbling from the brass chandeliers that loomed squarely over our heads. "Marcus?"

"What?"

"There's something I want to do before we leave."

"Tell me."

"Let's take Nico back."

"Do you want him to be punished?" he asked, his lips pursed. Our paces had slowed. This area of the castle should have been empty. Marcus had lured them out with by starting a fire, luckily.

I tried to seem unruffled by the fact that he sounded bothered by the idea of Nico dying. I was young and a little weary from the other night's journey to Sephasia, so I didn't see anything wrong with it. I was infuriated at how he had simply packed his bags, handed over gold to a guide to take him across the High Ridges, and stood expectantly before the doors of Bohru. There were a thousand things wrong with that.

"You are forgetting that he is a One. Moira is trying to keep his reckless soul alive."

And reckless, he was. He had run off without notice, now protected by the wealth and safety within the Bohru Castle. I assumed he was held in more safety than even Angel himself. "He's insane," I swallowed.

"He is, but he's a nice guy, and---"

"Who told you he was a nice guy?"

"Well---"

"Let's find Ram's sword first. Then we'll decide what to do."

Marcus looked away. "Alright," he said, and we were done talking about Nico. We rounded a sharp corner and started to smell the black smoke wafting over from the dining hall---where Marcus had been. He had framed an amateur cook and slipped away stealthily under the veil of panic. Eventually, the corridor lead to another room, a library. How many libraries were there?

I wrinkled my nose as I entered. I turned my chin to look at Marcus, whose black eyes were heavy with resentment. There was dust everywhere. I began wondering whether there were any dusters there.

The shelves were gilded at their corners, displaying books of varying colors and sizes while maintaining the library's overall scholarly ambiance. I gestured over to a random aisle. Marcus nodded and went the other way, while my gaze grazed over the textured spines of the perfectly arranged books ahead of me. There were no libraries in Bask. In fact, I doubted most Astorgans knew how to read.

My feet shuffled carefully through the aisle. Brows furrowed, I watched for anything unusual, any book or item that seemed to be misplaced. I couldn't afford to miss anything. Ram's sword could have been anywhere.

A thundering, ear-splitting noise.

Something had fallen; a shelf, probably? It sounded somewhat like a landslide. Then there was a light, a searing light (REPLACE). I felt my chest constrict with anxiety. My face fell.

"Marcus?"

There was no reply for a while.

The light had faded after a long while of unadulterated fear. I felt like a mouse running from a cat, a fish that had just been caught on a hook.

"You two really don't like the idea of incarceration."

It was the woman from earlier, the one in the blouse and tie. Her face was no longer cloaked. Her dark hair was done in braids and spilled elegantly from the sides of her head, falling to her chest. Her eyes were warm amber and her features were softly rounded. The closer I looked, the harder it hit me that I had been stupid.

"Surpise," Zoya glared, sarcastically waving her arms. "Murdered a Sephasi senator, took her clothes. Helped nearly kill Vincent. I got here on a ferry. I was a new face, so nobody really knew me yet. Sarturio doesn't know about this, by the way."

She watched our faces twist with confusion. "I saved the day. You two should be thanking me." Her shoulders were slumped and her tone was deadpan. She watched the color fill my cheeks in embarrassment. Then, glowering, I stood myself up and grabbed her collar. "What did you do to me? You, you made him---"

"Dude, what the hell? You *impaled* me!" She shoved me back.

"It seems you two are even," Marcus' face was like the surface of a neglected pond. Unwavering. "I hear you are a sorcerer, Zoya."

She blushed. "No."

"No?"

"I can't even move a Lantern?"

"Oh. Well, if you want to help---"

"Then what was that light?" I asked.

She shook her head. "That was something else. It was..." her voice trailed off. "I think we've found it."

My face went pale again. "Found...found what?"

Zoya said nothing, only traveling around the aisle to the source of the white light. "A hint as to where Ram's sword is." She turned the corner, her hand lingering on the edge of our shelf. Then she walked into the next aisle. I followed behind.

"It took us nearly a month to arrive. How did you---" The breath was drawn from my chest. I squinted, since my eyes weren't the greatest, and frowned at the fact that there was no weapon in front of us. Instead, there lay the body of a girl, dressed in a yellow Sephasian *kavuki*, her hair done into a tight bun. Though, her apparel wasn't our biggest concern. Her eyes were a ghostly pale blue. She was sitting on her knees, her tiny palms draped over the flushed surfaces of her knees. Her spine was as straight as a ramrod. Her eyes were staring straight ahead into the dimly lit library ahead, undisturbed.

"Excuse me, miss," I said through gritted teeth, in the heaviest of Astorgan accents. I bent down and nudged her on the shoulder, my just-dried pants crinkling as I did. The girl blinked herself awake. Her eyes instantly narrowed at the sight of me.

"You're Vincent Circ," she said slowly. I had always hated the Sephasian tongue, the way it unnecessarily clicked against the roofs of their mouths. Their voices were always sharper, a thousand times angrier than ours. Even if the person speaking was a child. "You can't have the spear. I stole it."

I flinched at her words. "Why did you steal it"

"Because you're going to kill my mom and dad."

My eyes softened. "I'm not." A thick smile pushed its way out of my throat. But the white-eyed girl's features only seemed to tense. I watched her limbs constrict with cynicism, her wrists pulling themselves back to her chest. "I trust my father more than anything. What he says is always true, it always happens."

It felt like the fish I just caught had slipped between my fingers.

"Well, look, you're going to be happy. Everyone's going to be happy when we get what we want," went Zoya. Her lips tightened as she spoke. Then she smiled warmly at the little girl. "You're going to be safe. Our job is to make people safe. So what's your name, little guardian?"

"Ali."

"Ah. That's a lovely one. Was it your mother or father that gave it to you?"

"My father."

"Are you lost? Why are you here, Ali?"

"I'm lost. Can you help me get back?"

"I sure can. But can you tell me who your father is?"

"I can't."

"That's alright! Let's get going, Marcus. Vincent."
