## Vincent

"You're not serious."

I felt Ali's grip on my right hand tighten considerably. A small grin painted the  Marcus walked ahead. He was at least a few inches taller than me, with boxy shoulders and a constantly firm expression. His hand was slung carelessly in the back pocket of his khakis, resting on perhaps a box of sweets. His other arm wove in and out of the air beside him as the three of us strode through the empty hall.

"You know, there's a fire out there, Ali," Marcus sighed, turning slightly to look back at the white-eyed girl behind him. "There's been a lot of fires here lately."

I let out a sneer. "Want to know who started it, Ali?"

Marcus glared at me. *What?* I mouthed.

"So, who told you to come visit, Zoy?" I swung my arm back and forth, the one that held to Ali. I glanced over at her, and she seemed a little weary. A little anxious. Zoya was looking at her, too. But she only blinked, her gaze shifting back to me. "I ran off. You know what they were making me do? They hired a sorcerer to teach me how to do her stuff, but I just couldn't."

"Were they trying to teach you to lift stuff into the air?"

"No. The basics. Like lighting candles."

"Oh, that's depressing."

Zoya turned away.

The sides of the hall were perfect spots for ghosts to linger. I had seen just one in my seventeen years of living. I remembered its silver breath and transparent-white silhouette. I had passed through one, the experience leaving a strange and hollow feeling in my chest. But the people that once worked here would come shuffling back as soon as they put out the smoke, leaving the ghosts without any breathing room.

The air was thick and the elaborate carpet we moved over felt rough upon my exposed feet, now the creamy shade of cooked salmon and somewhat calloused. I really, really wanted to leave. We had stayed in Bohru for two weeks, undercover as refugees from the southern areas. Marcus was the wealthy merchant from Lan. He wasn't fluent in it, so he made sure to only speak with individuals who clearly weren't from the east. I was the shy and modest escapee from south of the High Ridges. There held the explanation for my voice, slow and dopey with Astorgan. Zoya, apparently, had simply managed to fake the loud lisps of Sephasi.

"Why don't you trust us?" I managed to ask. It was like my throat was shoving the words out of me without my accord. Ali was only staring straight ahead at the winding path we had left to walk. It suddenly came to me that it was designed in that fashion so escapees would have to get past a long stretch of guarded path, which I found to be clever. I glanced below my shoulder, at Ali, who was still zoning out ahead. Finally, she blinked herself back into reality, her slick dark bun coming undone. Was her family wealthy?

"My father has a friend. A fortune teller. He says the Astorgans are going to come and sack all of Sephasia."

Zoya and I exchanged startled glances.

"He also says everyone living within the walls of Bohru Castle will die within the next five years. That's all I know. And Vincent," she paused to look up at me. I swallowed. "He said this, 'Vincent Circ, who will appear from amidst the 
