## ZOYA

It was the first day of spring. Children were skipping rocks across the glassy skin of our lake, laughing and making yellow flowers sprout from the soil. I approached them from behind, a smooth piece of rock clutched tightly in the clasp of my palm. I stepped closer, scruffing my boots against the thin layer of dirt beneath me, making it churn and form a small bog of brown dust by my feet.

I knelt down by the shore and examined the water’s surface. Its cold waves lapped gently against my toes while the brittle wind whipped strands of sandy hair across my face, irritating my skin and making my cheeks turn coral-pink. I inhaled sharply and flung my stone across, marveling at the sight of it skipping around a dozen times before sinking into the clear lake. I stood myself up. I smiled, clearly pleased with myself.

“You’re not serious,” I heard a boy groan from behind me. “Watch,” he said, kneeling down. I watched the leather skin of his boots crease and unravel, finally loosening as his hand whipped to his side, his eyes glinting like fresh amber. His stone skipped one, two…twenty-eight times before falling in.

My eyes narrowed. “That’s not fair. You were using magic.”

“It’s not my problem you can’t,” he shrugged, turning away to walk off towards the village.



Everyone wore furs in the village, from deep-autumn to early spring. I was draped in the carcass of a fox, whose tail lined my crow-black coat and gave warmth to my ankles.

I was dragging myself along our broad gravel road, watching a group of children leaf through books with their minds over by the well house. The gravel was spotted with tiny purple flowers. Soon the livestock would come and pick them clean. After all, spring had commenced, and the cattle were to have their offspring soon.

I sank my teeth into a piece of warm bread. It had gone sour.

“Zoya, come inside for lunch,” went my sister, Sara, weaving gilded strands together to take the shape of a cylindrical Lantern. She was beautiful and I think she knew it. Her hair was the slick mane of a horse and her ox-eyes shone like black pearls when you gazed into them, the obsidian we used to ward off evil spirits.

“I’m so pissed,” I said, opening the animal-hide flaps to our small home. Perhaps it was made with ash-wood from the forest by our house. “Why?” Sara asked, pursing her lips and pouring me a steaming bowl of soup. Its smell was strong. I watched the minute bubbles of oil and air inside swirl to form different rotund shapes and designs. Little balls of green floated to the top. Cabbage.

“For one, there’s cabbage in the soup. I can’t eat this.”

“It’s beef stew. Your favorite.”

I only glared at her.

“Hey, what’s making you so upset?” She placed her arm on my shoulder. I crossed my leg over the other with a sigh. There were many things making me upset. “It’s the first day of spring,” I decided to say.

Sara laughed. “Just—try this year. Try your best.”

“Let go of me,” I said.

Her hand left my shoulder and the teasing nature left her face.

“You’re cold, Zoya. Repent. Now.”

I groaned, walking over to kneel by the queer shard of glass hung to our wall. “O’ Heavenly Mother,” I began, watching Sara grin with contempt from the corner of my eye.
___

The spring celebration was supposed to be wonderful.

Sara was with her pretty little friends, a golden Lantern gleaming between her palms, laughing and nudging one of them on the shoulder. I was alone. I was holding a Lantern, but it remained dry and unlit. Even children could light these. I took in a deep breath and tried to remember what my father had said to me the other night. I was supposed to hold it firmly in the proper position and imagine a steaming, fuming ball of sun. But I didn’t know what the sun looked like.

Moments passed, and I started to think there was something wrong with my Lantern. But my sister had made them. Everyone knew she made the best kind, and she probably made mine easier to light than her others. My hands felt like they were just about to squeeze and tear it apart.

“Uh, Zoya, do you have an extra one?” asked Martin. 

My brows furrowed. “Why didn’t you ask the others?”
	
“Because yours can never light.”

“They can’t.”

I gave mine to him and he grabbed it vigorously with his hands, taking in a deep breath, arranging his fingers carefully along the sides of it. I watched him close his eyes. Then a ball of white started to appear on the inside. He opened his eyes. They were like yellow suns themselves, glinting so bright I thought they would explode. Then it became so bright that the heads of strangers began to turn to look in our direction.

I saw Sara turn and gasp.

I glared at Martin as my Lantern came floating off into the dark. “That was mine.”

“I lit it for you,” he said.

“It had my name on it.” 

“Listen, jackass. It’s not my fault you were born this way.”

Surges of coral came rushing into my face. I turned around and started back towards my home, blinking back tears.
____

Under the faint lights of Lanterns—some dying, some swelling anew—I made out the dark shape of a man, his hands tied behind a wooden post. I approached him.

“Who are you?”

He slowly lifted his head, his eyes twinkling with the lights from above. “Girl,” he said, his tongue parched and lips flaking away into sheepskin. “What have you done?” I asked, frowning.

“
	
The air seemed to be growing colder with every breath I drew in.

“Come here, little girl,” hissed a voice from the shadows. I squinted and managed to make out the faint glinting of jewels coming from the shop I was about to walk past. Then a plump, white-haired woman emerged dubiously from the shadows, the chain of a necklace dangling from her fingers as she walked towards me, her gait swaying uneasily. Her fingers were long and bony, and her nose stuck out of her face like a brass doorknob.

I thought of walking off, or breaking into a run, but I was suddenly filled with an odd, captivating feeling.  The woman stood there, scrutinizing me. “You’re unsightly, for someone your age.” I pursed my lips together. “What d’you got in your pocket?”

“Money?”

“Yeah. I wanna see how much you have for me.”

I curiously pulled out a couple bronze coins and one silver from my pocket. Just to see what would happen. She didn’t look pleased as her eyes grazed my open palm. “That’s all you have?” Her voice was flat.

I nodded.

“Fine. Give me all of that for the necklace.” She ran her fingers over its golden clasp. “Miss, I don’t really—”

“Oh, alright. Just the silver.”

I stared blankly at the amulet. It was beautiful, to say the least. Its pendant was a woman of gold, wrapping her arms around a jade pillar. Moira. The woman raised her eyebrow. “Pretty, ain’t she? You know her?”

“Yeah.” My voice was a whisper. The angel of Astor. I looked up at her, a gray mist swept over her poisonously green eyes. Their sharp glow clung to my skin like hooks. “The silver?” She probed, extending her trembling arm. I wanted to refuse, to tell her I was saving the coin for something else, but I handed her the coin, pressing it coarsely into her calloused palm. The necklace felt cool and heavy over my skin.

Then, for some reason, I started to run.
____

Before we arrived, I heard only stories of it—of an endless swell of deep blue, where sirens and flocks of colorful fish dwelled. I had never been to the beach as a child, since I was never allowed to. But Father had grown up in the seaside town a couple miles north of where we were, and thus I was raised with tales of underwater mermaid civilizations and man-eating sea dragons.

He was raised in Bask. The city was a haven for devout men dripping in wealth. I couldn’t even wrap my mind around the idea of living there.

A whirl of images came to me: eating from a lush buffet every evening, impossibly-clean streets, marble fountains and verdant gardens—it seemed living there was a privilege only within the reach of the fattest aristocrats. In Cliffside, I grew up polishing their silverware and pushing their carts through weed-choked alleys.

My watch struck six as I brought myself over the ocean shore and a gush of icy foam spilled over my feet. Our land could still be beautiful.

As my gaze drifted towards the abandoned lifeguard tower, which was swathed in seaweed and spotted with barnacles, I caught sight of a young priestess performing a ritual before the sea. The golden bells and torches clasped tightly in her palms were glinting with strokes of light from the lights above.

An odd, familiar feeling began to dwell in my chest. Where had I seen the dance before? Her movements made her seem delicate like Catavan porcelain. I held my breath, waiting for purple flames to erupt from her torch, but the moment never came. Perhaps she was a novice.

Religious practices had been banned for years. As a matter of fact, I hadn’t seen one in ages. It felt refreshing to see a priestess like this. Yet apprehensive.

“You shouldn’t,” I shouted from the surf, watching her green kavuki heave breaths of salty air as she spun. In Astor, we wore red. Any verdant color of sorts, if on clothing, symbolized chaos. She would be charged twice if she were caught. The priestess’ arms dropped as she turned to face me, a riveting smile swept across her pallid complexion.

There was something unearthly about her. The woman’s lips were thin and colored a deep crimson, like tender gushes of freshly-spilled blood. Her eyelashes were long and laced with white, and her eyes were a bewitching red, flaring dangerously as I stared.

“You don’t even know who I am.”

Her voice was twinged with an archaic accent I failed to recognize. “It’s best you stop before someone sees you,” I warned.

My mother was a priestess. You would expect a woman like her to perform at patriotic events and make ample sacrifices to Tagas—and she once had—but the laws had changed immensely since then. She and her husband were now imprisoned.

The priestess let out an offbeat laugh, her voice echoing impossibly in the empty night. “You should worry about getting back to your lodge before curfew.”

A loud gust of wind blew past my bare shoulders. I opened my mouth, but my question was choked back. It was like an invisible hand was forcing the words back down my throat. I could feel her alluring smirk looming over my shoulder as the air grew cold.

*How do you know me?*

Her grin only deepened. “I’ll answer you soon enough.” Her finger traveled to her lips.

“I'll be watching you carefully until then,” she sighed. The priestess turned back around as the dim sun fell into the west, painting her light hair in a warm purple. Then, in a gush of salty air, the beautiful priestess vanished.

I could still feel the divine echo of her breath over my cheek.

The raw sores and swells on the bottoms of my feet stung with a familiar pang as they met the dry flagstone path and brushed against rough grains of sand. I found myself wishing I brought sandals and beach towels before running away. The ground was littered with trash, and an array of tents and abandoned booths lined the streets with contempt. The air was sour with the scents of fish and garbage.

Things weren’t always like this. We were once the world's envy, exporting gold and steel by hull to eager kingdoms in the west. I dug my nails into my fists, a breath of wind blowing past my shoulders and prompting an icy stream to tickle my spine. My ears were swamped with the clamor of homeless locals as I walked past. “Y’reckon the King’s gonna go to war with the Sephs?”

“Yeah.”

“We’re gonna lose the war and our jobs.”

My shoulders suddenly grew taut. Tensions were high between us and the north. Long ago, the men of Sephasia had stolen our lands and left us in ruin. King Menos was close to declaring war on the nation. If he had already been sending troops into northern territory, we were doomed.

“The paper’s been talking about the possibility of another Underling.” I almost stopped in my tracks.

The Underlings were our saviors, our last breath of hope. The three of them were destined to bring glory to Astor. There was word of a fourth.

I watched them clasp their hands together and begin to pray. Despite the high stakes, I had no idea it was that big of a deal. Most common folk were too preoccupied with work to even care. A queer-sounding melody left their lips, their meager voices diminishing with every step I took forth. Religious hymns always sounded haunting to me.

I started to make out a sulfuric scent I knew all too well: smoke. A fire, I cursed. There was a fire somewhere nearby, tearing through forests and dragging through homes. I heard the fumbling of the locals as they collected their belongings and hurried towards the High Ridges. There was a chance Sara had gotten caught up in it. I bolted back towards the sea over a beaten path, my heart pounding. My skin was instantly met with searing heat. The scent heightened as I ran back towards the town, now lit with a hot orange glow.

Their panicked shouts sounded distant from where I stood, yet were still rash and thick with despair. My eyes darted around the scene and widened in horror as I saw the flames closing in on me threateningly. When I had first looked, the fire had been back at the town center, and now they were just a handful of paces away from me.

Panicking, I moved myself into a mass of dry brush. But this, I came to realize, was a mistake. The brittle branches of sticks and shrubs clawed at my skin, the scent of black smoke becoming deeper with its every swell and heave. My pulse quickened.

The seconds ticked by like thawing ice. Finally, our home collapsed.

I saw eyes staring at me from all directions. They were widened with curiosity, watching every pull and heave of my body. Their pupils were crude puddles of black oil. Then, they started changing colors, reveling in the light of the flame. They faded from pink to blue to a foul shade of green as my feet beat against the pavement. I felt quick yet nauseated, entranced in a colorful, whirling vertigo—like a kitten on catnip.

I stumbled forth into the paved road by what once was the woman’s pawn shop. The pavement was hot and my feet were bare. The only thing I could do, I decided, was to run further into the city. I wasn’t in the right mind, was I?

My feet scrambled into the blazing town where children wailed at the sight of their homes tumbling down into the stony earth. My clothes and sketchbooks were left in the lodge to only fuel the flames, which would eventually push on into the West Mountains and High Ridges. The last of my belongings.

The eyes were still there, watching me. I finally buckled at the knees, a storm of coughs leaving my lips. I was sure my lungs would not work again, if I happened to survive this incident. It wasn’t like I wanted to. But it was an oddity how my legs had made it this far into the town.

“Sara!” It was fruitless. My shouts were silenced by the crackling of blaze and the piercing cries of children.

I looked up at the crimson sky above me, taking in the bitter scent of ash and rubble. There was something nuancing about the blood-red sky, dappled with brilliant stars and splashed with orangey hues. Although my skin stung with heat, and I felt my lungs aching with ash, it felt safe—somewhat. 

From here, I could hear everything. I heard the chanting of men and women. They sounded like wails, like shouts of terror with a slight song to them. My head turned and I saw men tossing flaming torches into the once neat array of buildings. 

It came to me that this was a rebellion.

The city was known for its population of Las Islan fugitives from the west. I had been taught about them, once, at school. They had sought solitude from their war torn nation, giving up their voices as they crossed the White Path into our land. I went to school with one; he couldn’t speak as the rumors had told, and he moved away before the semester was finished. It came to me that they were probably here, in the city of Blacksand.

“Burn every last one of them!” You’d have to be a devil to start something like this.

A boy ran past their hardened expressions, a bag tucked under his slight arm. “Thief!” I heard the gritty voice of a rebel holler. The boy’s face was still raw and playful with the high sharpness of youth. A rebel tossed a torch at his proud shadow, and he collapsed, howling.

Why? I asked myself, my chest rising and falling. My gaze drifted towards one of the rebels, a man, who was stepping towards me. My eyes narrowed. Because of him, I thought, I was going to die. Yet his eyes were tender and so…well meaning. He didn’t look like one of them. The man kneeled in front of me, extending his palm. “Take it,” he urged. “You’ll die.”

My hand trembling, I took his hand. He placed my arm over his shoulder and began walking me to a fresh structure, unweathered and untouched by the fire. A swarm of fugitives met me there. They looked angry as they caught sight of me. Or was it the rebel?

My body collapsed as soon as he let go. I got a good look at his face, sharp with the features of a cruel Lan, proud with the stern eyes of an aristocrat. But he did not sound like an eastern man. He wore the crest of our kingdom over his red kavuki.

“Who are you?” I gasped as he began to turn away. He regarded me for a moment before turning back. “You might know me as Nikolai Calas,” he said with a sigh. The name rang a faint bell. He turned around and started back into the blazing township.

A woman stood a few steps away, beckoning me. Her olive skin glowed in the light, and her lips were darker than Samui vinegar. Slowly, their corners curled up into a fiendish smile. The woman’s eyes were a theme, a recurring dilemma. A threatening dark green.

“Sephis,” I finally gasped. Chaos. Her black gown billowed in the wind, and she quietly watched as my cheek met the hot pavement beneath.

*What now?*

I was dead, but my mind was still conscious. I was quickly submerged in the scenery, watching florid hazes of yellow and orange seethe in the hot wind. Blocks of wood and scraps of brick fell from the swaying structures, fluttering uneasily before they toppled down towards the earth.

She was still standing there, watching as my mind went blank.

