JASPER

The yolk of dawn was beginning to boil in from behind the broad throng of spruce trees in front of my balcony, splattering its colors over the shingles of the newly-built portion of the castle. The sky was a deep cobalt and the sun was dipping into a pool of red, its colors rippling over the distant sea like the hoarse, glistering scales of a siren. It felt like the world was holding its breath.
I made out the faint squawks of angry gulls as my eyes fluttered shut, perhaps arguing over a captured fish somewhere in the distance.
We had lost a good piece of our palace to flames. In other news, the best in the Astori military was rumored to have returned home to celebrate their victory. My tongue clicked against the roof of my mouth in distaste. I glanced at my hand, heavily jeweled in silver, which crept upward to grab my amulet. It hung from my neck in a twine the color of coal and was nested in a sloppily carved sheathe of silver. Its pendant was dust-purple and had a dull, archaic shine. I brushed my thumb over it carefully.
I had encountered someone at the battlefield. They had set the castle on fire. When my necklace came close to her, it behaved irregularly. That could only mean one thing.
	“There is a very important visitor at the palace gates. Should we invite him in?” A servant’s voice, sweet and sultry. I turned to look at her. “Should we invite him in,” I echoed, stepping towards her, watching her wipe her clammy palms on her brick-red blouse. Her nose was the Ala River, curved and twisted and splattered in brown freckles. I reached for the pair of satin gloves on my bed stand, next to my glass of water and a photograph lying flat over the slick cherry-wood. “Who is it?” I asked, twisting each of my rings off and setting them on a porcelain dish set on my dresser.
“It’s their ambassador.”
	“What ambassador?” went my lazy voice.
	“From Astor, a member of Menos’ high court.”
	“Oh.”

“Nikolai, right?” I grinned, extending my hand warmly. He didn’t take it. “Tell them to let go of me,” he said, dodging the question, struggling to elude the watchmen he was sandwiched between. My smile faded. I raised my hand slightly and the watchmen released him. “Your Sephasi’s great.”
“Piss off. We speak nearly the same language.”
“Why are you here?” I waited for an answer. He refused to look at me, like he had taken something I said personally. Then finally he lifted his chin to meet my gaze. He had pale skin, perhaps from living beneath the Murk. His eyes were deep brown and his hair fell to his shoulders in even waves. “Eastern bastard, I’m assuming,” he lifted his hands with what appeared to be contempt. His voice was round and full, like the saturated insides of a melon. I let out a laugh.
“Could you take me somewhere to rest, somewhere in here?”
I regarded him coolly. “Of course. Do you mind being monitored, Nikolai?”
“Yes.”
“Too bad,” I said. “It’s the law.”
The sun was beginning to set, painting Nikolai in a creamy yellow. His eyes were blemished and hung sleepily like he had swam all the way to Samui and back. His features were sharp and stern, and he had the eyes and stature of a cat. “You don’t look like you want to arrest me.” He didn’t avert his gaze, his coffee-brown eyes pouring into mine observantly. “Come here,” I sighed, gesturing for him to follow. “I haven’t spoken with an Astori politician in ages.”
He paused, clamping his fingers over the edge of his jaw. “Where are you taking me?”
“Nowhere. You don’t have a knife on you, do you?”
“Why would I be carrying a knife,” he breathed.

He didn’t regard or even glance at the windows as we strolled through the hall. I thought he would at least be surprised at the way this ball of flame lit everything up. “Why do you wear those?” he asked.
	“Wear what?”
	“Your gloves.”
	“Oh. They’re for protection.”
	“From what?”
	“From people.” He went silent. I figured he knew I was lying.
“Here’s a room we hardly ever use. You can stay here,” I told him, gesturing to a door made from frosted glass, its knob a delicately-carved silver ornament. He blinked twice, obviously surprised that I was letting him stay to begin with. I had read about this beforehand. The Sephasi’s unwavering hospitality was hardly seen in Astor.
“You look like you’ve seen a ghost,” I smiled.

