VINCENT

It was a strange feeling, the one that came after killing someone. It feels like something’s prickling and taking bites at your skin, and suddenly you feel like a child, one that had just been scolded for doing something wrong, except nobody’s scolding you. Then a feeling boils up from your chest and into your throat. It’s guilt, but calling it guilt would be an understatement. It was dread.
I was dragging myself along one of the red palace halls, my gaze drifting across the walls aimlessly and at random, eventually coming to glance out one of our broad tempered-glass windows. The air was cool and thick against my skin. The sky was dark as always, but it was red, rust-red. The moon was flashing a murky orange and my stomach suddenly began to drop. I felt Marcus’ words prickling the back of my neck. The Sephisiae.
“Vincent.” My head swept itself around and I found myself facing him, who I found pacing toward me with urgence in his step, his face a little paler than usual. He probably already knew. “Where have you been for the past twenty minutes?” His voice didn’t sound suspicious. Instead, it sounded like he was trying to hide the fact that he knew everything. And the watchmen always knew everything.
 I loosened the wine-colored tie around my neck. “We both know I had things to do,” I told him, watching his face twist deeper with weariness. He was also dressed in his black evening attire but his hair had fallen apart quite a bit. I began to notice the reddish lighting, which everything seemed to be brushed in. It was like someone had poured wine over my eyes and I was looking through the thin crust that gathered over them. “I think we both know that’s not the truth,” he sighed, adjusting his collar. “But it’s not like I’m going to toss you in the dungeon. I’m gonna bring you to court.”
I knew full well that I was damned. You wouldn’t last an hour in the king’s High Court, where Their gazes alone would pierce holes through your skin for answers. I heard Marcus laugh under his breath. If they found me guilty of being the Sephim, they would kill me in front of everyone. 
“I always knew you were the Sephim.” I raised my chin and saw him smile, although there seemed to be nothing to smile about. “At Milena’s. It looked like you’d seen a ghost half the time. I’m guessing you were having discussions with Sephis.” He placed his hand on my shoulder. “Zoya is alive, Vincent,” he whispered, pulling me into him and dragging me upward. “They managed to revive her.” Somehow that hurt more than the fact that I was going to be put to death. “Come on. I’m taking you to the High Court.” He reached for my shoulder.
I grabbed his wrist. “Please, Marcus, don’t do this. I’m, I’m one of your friends.” My voice wasn’t the most assuring thing; I sounded like a child scared half to death. Marcus only stood there, his smile now gone, looking at me rigidly, his brows furrowed. He was looking at someone who thought he could get away with killing someone. I wanted to tell him it wasn’t me that told me to do it, but he wouldn’t understand.
“I don't think you understand. If they kill you, the sun will shine.” His voice unnerved me. It was like something switched around inside him. 
My chest sunk deeper. I felt the tension in my face grow firmer and I looked down to stop him from seeing the glassy, angry tears jeweling my eyes.

“In approximately one hour, Vincent Riga will be claimed as Sephis’ vessel,” went the Foreman, his hands threaded together neatly over the wooden podium he was sitting behind. I saw him look away for a moment, perhaps listening to the careful mumbles of his colleagues, and then his gaze went back to scrutinizing me. It came to me that they had been anticipating this trial for centuries. I only scowled and reached for the glass of water set at the corner of the wooden desk I was seated at. Then I raised my chin to glare at the large grandfather clock in the corner, which read 11:00.
	The courtroom smelled like wax and parchment. Everything was made out of polished spruce, and intricate designs and banners seemed to be polluting the scholarly atmosphere. I had been sitting there for thirty minutes and my sweat was beginning to collect underneath my rear. I was still wearing my evening suit and tie. Everyone watching my sentencing had seen me squirming around in discomfort. They had gathered witnesses from all over the nation. Those who claimed to have seen me acting suspiciously and having conversations with the dark.
	“When he was about to stab me, he, like, he took his knife and went, ‘did you really think we were friends’ and then he continued to tell me I was wrong about him all along.” Zoya was seated in a reclining chair by the High Court. She was wrapped in an off-white duvet and her right hand was clutching the side of her chest. She turned and looked at me in loathing. I pursed my lips, moving my bound wrists nervously and clearing my throat. The High Court turned to regard her coolly and then broke off into chatter.
I watched the Foreman pick his nose and wipe his finger on the podium. Then he picked up the gavel left idle on its corner and slammed it back against its surface with a loud thud. “He will be executed promptly in the morning,” he proclaimed with a grin, watching officers instinctually grab me by the arms and drag me out of my seat. Fuck you, I mouthed as he gathered his files and clamped them under his arm.
I felt my back and rear leave the warm camel-hide carpet of the court and enter the bitter cobblestone of the dungeon. My eyes desperately darted around the committee, searching for Nikolai, but there was no sign of him. I didn't even resist the officers. The Sephim had to die either way. They led me around a couple corners and forcefully pushed me into a small cage. I saw a stretch of metal chain slither in from a dark corner and clamp its mouth over my ankle. The room smelled like wet, burnt cigars and I could hear someone groaning and yelling something in another language from the cell next door. I tugged on my leg to try and move, but couldn’t. Then I realized I was still dressed the same as before.
After I tore my jacket off and loosened my tie to leave a disgusting white blouse, I sat myself down against the cold and wet cobblestone, trying to fall asleep. There was a bitter taste in my mouth and my stomach was doused with dread. The feeling was like a shadow. What you see when you’re sleeping with your back against your duvet, but your eyes are wide open. A demon.
Tomorrow I am going to die.

When I awoke, I was tied to a small wooden post around half my height. My legs were free. It was just my hands that were bound. My body was sore from sleeping on the dungeon’s stone floors and I had a really bad headache. Or was it a headache? The pain was coming from around my eye. Perhaps I had been punched there. I couldn’t remember anything.
	I opened my eyes, which were instantly met with the searing darkness from outside. Lanterns littered the sky. The low-hanging ones glowed a deep, bloody red. Suddenly everything was no longer swell and orderly. Everything felt cold. I didn’t like it. The cool soil beneath me seemed to swirl and change colors with every breath I took in. The lights and colors from the other night and whatever happened this morning—the thoughts seemed to shift and churn in my head, giving me a massive headache. I raised my eyes and saw the moon, redder and larger than how it had ever been, as if it swelled overnight. “Go to hell,” I heard someone shout. “When are they going to kill him?” I heard another ask. Their voice sounded excited, if anything.
I brought my gaze downward to see them all crowded around me. Their faces were each incredibly different and there was a broad mix of them. Some were noble, others were wrapped in shawls and seemed very poor. They had all come to witness my execution.
	“Son of Sephis,” thundered the king. “He is the son of Sephis.”
	I wasn’t. I knew my parents well. But without a doubt, I was the Sephim.
“He will be put to death by firing squad!”
A triumphant, hollow spatter of applause.
I turned myself around to get a glance at my arm, which didn’t have the mark that was on it earlier. I tossed and squirmed, trying to escape. I didn’t want to die. I saw Marcus watching me from afar, his face slightly more wan than usual. He looked afraid, to my relief. I wanted him to get angry and yell at the king and tell him that it wasn’t me. But he was supposed to receive a promotion soon.
Then I saw Zoya. She was still tucked in her duvet, her head back against a wooden backboard. The podium she was on had work done to make it flat enough for her. If they weren’t looking at me, they were looking at her pityingly. I saw the royal firing squad approach me and unsheathe their weapons. Under their shadowing top hats and thick leather coats I knew they were excited. Then they got into position, lunging forward and flinging the hefts of their guns over their soldiers. I closed my eyes.

“The hell’s going on?” Marcus roared. His voice was thick with anger.
That was when I realized the once-black sky was starting to turn green. A murky lime green. It became thicker and brighter, and I heard the excited remarks and giggles about it. I could no longer see the Lanterns. It was light enough to see the shadow-black figure of a winged creature in the sky, diving into the earth.
It landed right in front of me and sent a thin cloud of dust pummeling in everyone’s direction. I got a better look at it and realized it had the silhouette of a woman. Her wings, blacker and slicker than a raven’s, spread themselves out for everyone to see as the sky bled a nauseating vine-green.
“I am the Sephim,” she declared. Her voice, though familiar, was not comforting in the slightest. It was gray and metallic. Like something that wasn’t human.
	Then she turned around and my eyes began to widen. I would have been able to recognize her even if her face had been burned and her body turned into a snake. When her identity finally came to me, I felt my eyes grow wide with disbelief.
“Thalia.”

The sky was still glowing green. Marcus had set me free and I had broken off into a sprint, but almost everyone seated at the podium had left. Some of them had been killed. By her.
My heart was beating from in my throat and I was now running for my life. Marcus led the way, since he knew the Bask village better than I did, Zoya following behind me, clutching her stomach where I impaled her. My face was cold with disbelief. It was me, I could’ve sworn.
I was the Sephim, I was the one having weird and dark visions with her in them, where she told me to do unspeakable things. “Tagas, where the hell is Niko?” I heard Marcus yell. “Dead, probably,” I wheezed. 
Sprinting on an empty stomach and sore throat wasn’t the greatest feeling. It made me feel worse for Zoya. “In here,” Marcus bellowed, his feet clambering up into a flight of stairs, which seemed to be connected to a white building. The strange buIt ended up leading us into a large abandoned chapel. Broad columns of colorful stained glass windows bejeweled the walls. Yet everything seemed cold and pale with the sky as it was.
There were two broad arrays of long seats and strange, thick books open and sprawled over the floor. It was like there had once been many disciples here to come and cherish the Before Scriptures, but they must have fled when the evacuation was ordered. Or perhaps it was something else that made them flee.
There was a closet behind the podium at the front, which we slipped inside. “You tried to kill me,” Zoya wailed, burying her face in her hands. My face fell. But I didn’t have the nerve to respond or say anything at all. I felt like I was about to faint. “Just shut up,” Marcus muttered. “Or she’ll find us.”
Something rolled over to touch the end of my toe. It was small and looked like a chicken’s egg. I ignored it, until the egg began to swell until it was the size of a child’s head. It finally cracked open and a soggy, slimy fairy popped out of it and grabbed my ankle.
Its eyes were black beads and its skin was pink and drenched in fluid, like a newborn baby. Its wet wings glinted like the nacre of a seashell. “Duster,” I whispered, shuddering, watching it open its mouth to reveal a set of serrated teeth. The others saw what was happening and they started kicking it. The duster sank its teeth into my skin and I let out a grunt of pain.
“Get off, you bitch!” Marcus bent down in a frenzy to get it away from me. He wrapped his hands around its body and started tugging on the creature, which eventually detached itself from my foot. Except its teeth were still there, their grip on my flesh firmer than before. “There are more,” I heard Zoya mumble. “They like blood and dust. They live in packs. We better run before our blood gets sucked clean out of us.”
“Let’s get the hell out of here,” I muttered, grabbing her arm and running towards the flight of stairs we had come up from, ignoring the throbbing coming from my foot. “Stop,” she held her hand out, gasping for breath. “I saw a ton of them in that area. We’re lucky they ignored us when we were coming up.” I checked if Marcus was behind me. He was, and his face was this awful shade of white. “I hear buzzing,” he swallowed. And I was starting to hear it, too. Then a swarm of them flew out, their high-pitched voices nagging at our skin.
“Now where do we run off to?” One of them asked.
I had an idea. “Better pray to Tagas,” I said with a sigh, squeezing the grip I had on Zoya’s wrist. The fairies were chasing us, now, and we were running into a stained-glass window. “There’s nothing outside,” Marcus gasped. “There’s nowhere else for us to go. And I wouldn’t jump out of that—”
I turned to face him. “What, do you want us to die?” I took in a quick, shuddering breath as my throbbing foot planted itself over one of the chapel’s limestone window sills and our bodies became food for the frosted glass.
I felt each of the shards digging into my skin as the glass shattered into a thousand pieces. It was like they were drilling holes into my flesh. I let out a sharp grunt as my eyes fell on whatever was beneath me—the shingles of a stranger’s home, set ablaze with splotches of red. It was on fire. The red grew larger until my feet planted themselves over a row of shingles with a thud, fat bristles prickling their way up from my feet and into my torso. Zoya was behind me, looking like she was about to puke. Marcus followed behind her. He managed to somersault as he fell, which was what you were taught to do after falling. I raised my eyes to try and glance at where we had come from: the third story of a chapel, around twenty feet up from where we were standing. I landed on my feet.
“Did you fracture anything, Vincent?”
“I don’t know.”

When I awoke the next morning, it was like my life had returned to what I liked to think was normal. Except everyone wanted to speak with me.
	“Is it true you tried to kill Zoya?” Asked a nurse as she tended to my arm with a wet and warm piece of cloth, which was where most of my wounds were. There was a mirror hung on the wall. The area around my eye was still this murky shade of purple. On the nightstand beside me, there was a porcelain vase with black flowers sprouting out of it like the feather plume on a watchman’s helmet-thing.
“I did.”
“And why did you get away with it?”
“I don’t know.”
The nurse tilted her head to the side wearily and fixed her fur hat, before tucking the towel under her arm and scurrying off. The leather heels of her shoes clinked and popped as she walked out, leaving the door slightly ajar behind her. I started lazily rocking myself back and forth in the straw chair I was seated in.
There was an ivory photo frame that leaned against the pallid vase. It displayed a picture of me when I was around the age of nine, the year when they brought me here to stay. I looked angry. I wondered why I put that one there specifically.
I’m not the Sephim.
I’m not the Sephim.
Maybe I was going crazy. I could have sworn that I was. I knew full well that I was being spared because I was part of the One Folk, but for once, I felt grateful. I closed my eyes, listening to the soft murmurs and lisps of the wind outside. The circular light that hung above me grew brighter, the longer I waited. Then I heard the faint creaking open of my door. “Hey,” Marcus nodded, clicking the door shut behind him. He was wearing a fur cap and was dressed head-to-toe in animal fur. He looked uncomfortable.
Marcus sat down over the edge of my duvet, lacing his hands together and turning to look at me. “I’m sorry,” he said after a while. I wanted to get out of my chair. “God, I hate this coat.”
“It isn’t Thalia,” I told him. “My mark’s gone.”
“Was her’s there?”
	I went silent.
“Yeah. Exactly. Maybe they fed you too much honey. Is your throat okay?”
“I’m doing alright.”
“Your arm looks terrible,” he swallowed. I bent my chin downward slightly to look at it, and it did look awful. There were streaks of pink and red running down all over. “Doesn’t it?” I said scornfully.
“The protests got worse, so I have to leave soon.”
“Why are you here?”
“Why do you think I’m here?”
“To apologize?”
“No. To tell you that everything’s gone to shit because of you.”
I twisted my body around to glare at him. “What?”
“Yeah. The news caused quite a stir. The same dumbasses who complain about the high costs of Lanterns started whining about the fact that you got away with attempted murder. And they’re refusing to believe that Thalia’s the Sephim because of the authorities’ lack of evidence.”
“Maybe she isn’t,” I shrugged, watching him take off his hat and run his finger over it. “Maybe they made a mistake.” Marcus was silent for a long time. Then, he started shaking his head.
“You saw her. We all did. And by the way, the king’s given us new orders. Pack your things. We’re headed to Sephasia in a month.”

