##ELI

My father and his wife were downstairs, finishing their dinner of baked potatoes and roasted duck in the dining hall. I had left the table in a frenzy.
    
My hands were unraveling a newspaper, the one I purchased at the flower shop not too far from my father’s estate. I had shuffled through a mass of flustered neighbors to grab my usual chewing tobacco at the general store, dousing myself in the stench of a crowd bursting with unease. Some of them had been brawling with one another for their copy of the paper. Seeing this, I stopped at the florist’s to buy whatever the paper had to offer.

There was only one print left on their counter. I tossed a bronze coin onto its smooth surface, seized the newspaper, and wordlessly slipped out the door. Was it the crossword puzzle? The death of an emperor?

*The Sephasi Chronicle*, it read at the top. The headline was printed in bold and took up nearly the entire cover page, leaving only a small space beneath for the other news. The cover photo was missing. I ran my eyes over its title, pressing my flaky lips together in anticipation. When I read it, the newspaper fell from my hands, tumbling onto the powder-blue carpet beneath.
	
“Father,” I called, letting my feet dangle over the edge of my bed. The hoarse quilt burnished my skin to salmon as I scooted myself further within, my chest heaving in breath after breath, hardly able to contain the zeal of it. 

My father came into the room and propped himself against the wooden banister outside my door with his arms folded. The soft classical music wafting over from downstairs made its way into my ears and gradually slowed my pulse to the point where my skin had paled. "What is it?" my father probed.
    
I stared, quizzical. “You haven’t heard? It’s the Sephim.”
	
He watched me, confused, and then I watched his expression fall apart. It was like his eagerness chewed and swallowed him whole. Then he fell to his knees and cupped his hands over his mouth, eyes wide. He shivered, as if he had just held gazes with an untethered spirit, skin going wan beneath the garish lights. Slowly, he removed his hands and lifted his chin to look me square in the eyes.
   
“What happened?”

___

My father had earned himself a reputation of being one of the most well-known preachers in the nation, traveling from here, Bohru, to cities along the eastern coastline to tell his stories. I grew up hearing about his theories on how Sephis cast Astor away as revenge or about how Tagas had killed children in the Far North. To me, it was all a wad of bullshit. I didn’t know why people even cared about his conspiracies. They always managed to make the front pages of popular tabloids and such, and my father was convinced he was right. I had gone with him to Renee, once, watching the eyes of expectant Sephasians kindle with emotion at his flowery, feverish words.

Angel wanted to speak with my father publicly. There were flocks of renowned journalists and wealthy men at our door, waiting for his head to appear and tell them about how his theories were proven correct. He had spoken at a religious conference years back, earlier in his career. He told them about some sort of blood moon or supernatural occurrence.

“Eli, my dearest.”

I closed the book I was reading and my gaze moved towards the door to my bedroom. Then my father’s head popped in from behind the door. His graying hair was slicked back as if to hide the fact that he was aging terribly and would perhaps wither away within the next couple years, and was not, in fact, protected by the gods. “What are you reading?”

“Uh, let me see. It's called *The Truth and Everything in Between*. It’s—”

“They want to speak with you, too, Eli. They want to know about your little gift.”

I rubbed my eyes. “I don’t want to speak with anyone.”

“Listen, I told them everything.”

It felt like I had just taken a punch to the gut. I slid myself off of my bed and walked over to glare at him. His eyes, as the pupils of aging men were, were this dull and cheerless shade of pale green, almost looking as if they were bleeding into the white behind them. He was helpless. I seemed to be the only one that knew about this side of him. And there was my mother, who’d run off quickly after I was born, leaving me for the housemaids.
    
“You’re a piece of shit,” I said, closing the door behind me. I pushed past him and made my way down the marble flight of stairs trailing into the foyer.

The floors were made of polished limestone and it smelled strongly of dust and various wax soaps. There were two stained-glass windows that stood, looming, as if to guard the broad wooden door in between them. When I was a kid, I’d stare at the door for hours, at the shapes and designs carved into it, of the gods and far-off civilizations. I pulled it open with aggression and was greeted with a crowd of people. At least they were calm. “I’ll take one question at a time,” I told them.

“Will the Astorgans win the war?” I heard someone ask.

“No.”

They were now murmuring things to one another anxiously. “How are you able to do this?”

“I don’t know.”

“Does my fiancé wish to marry me for my wealth?”

“I don’t even know who you are.”

I frowned. I started to feel like I had been tricked into coming out and having people consult me for money.

This went on, until the pearly sky turned an ugly purple, bleeding down into a murky orange. The first wave of crowd had all died out and a new, larger group of people had come to take their places. I started to feel sick. Perhaps it was the blustery heat or the shifting mobs of journalists.

A tender, throbbing headache.

It started to feel as if the world around me was moving, being displaced and changing in color. I started to sweat.

I looked down at the warm, blowsy skin draped over my palms, which seemed to be perpetually swelling and expanding like balloons, finally detaching themselves and floating off into the vertigo crowd.

*This isn’t real. I’ve just made it up in my head.*

I tried to console myself, to help myself calm down.

My eye caught on a head amidst the rippling throng of journalists, their hair glowing amber under the dimming stars over our heads. “Where do you think Sephis is right now?” he asked. His voice was low and brackish, yet warm, like orange gleams blinking over a gray sea. He had keen features and the matte, piercing eyes of a bobcat. The corners of his mouth wormed upwards as he spoke to form a wily grin. 

Suddenly everything around me faded to black. The sky, the patio I was standing over.

But I was calm. The man was still there, leaning against one of our posts, tucking his hands into the pockets of his khakis and smiling dubiously, staring at something next to me. He looked like he was mumbling to someone I couldn’t see, in a different language, perhaps Islan. His lips were like the only part of him that could move. Then he glared at me, smirking.

I opened my mouth. “You’re not one of my father’s followers, are you?”

He gave a half-hearted shrug and tilted his head to the side. “I’m not.”

“She’s in the castle. Bohru Castle.”

“Thank you,” he smiled. “Do you mind?” He extended his arm. I took it.

I awoke to a wet towel being pressed to my face. It was warm. I could feel its sultry drops of liquid dribbling down my cheeks to pool by my ear. The mumbling of housemaids was all I could hear. They were saying things about the twitching muscles near my eyes and how they had managed to get me to breathe once again. I heard my step-mother, Rose, thank them for taking care of me. 
	
“Thank the gods, Eli. You’re alive,” she gushed, coming over to wrap her arms around me. The heated towel fell from my face. I let out a long groan and sat myself up against the headboard of my bed.

“I should’ve told Richard that giving a speech would be too much for you to handle.” She pulled away, beaming. Her wrinkled skin was nearly the color of snow, perhaps from hardly leaving the house, and her withering lips were like gushes of blood slavering from a pale canvas.

“It seems you were poisoned. You even stopped breathing at one point. We called a medic, Dr. Halls.” She gestured to a slender woman dressed in this dull shade of purple, a bruise. Dr. Halls’ hands were held behind her back and I saw her give a slight nod in acknowledgement. She was obviously Islan. Yet she was dressed well, and her hair was done into the dark, oiled braids of a noblewoman.

“What was I poisoned with?” I asked. The smile vanished from Rose’s face.

“We don’t know yet. But, um, whoever did this, it sounds like they really wanted to kill you.”

I conjured the man I saw. His hair, the tawny shade of chilled beer, his impish, good-for-nothing grin. “Was Dr. Halls the one who suggested the idea of poisoning?”

“Yeah. She works for the Bureau. Top notch.”
	
My brows furrowed. “Can you leave?”

She took in a breath. “Why do you hate me so much?”

“I don’t hate you.”

Rose scowled and then left the room, a train of nurses and maids leaving behind her, hammering the door shut behind them.

“Did you seriously believe her?” asked a voice. It was him. I turned and wasn’t surprised to see him beaming at me, seated against my windowsill like a cat, his hair lighter than it had been.

“How the hell did you get here?”

“Your father let me in,” he smiled, playing with the brass latch on my window, looking out at the dark leaves of our blossoming orange tree. I could see some small baubles of unripe fruit beginning to sprout from within the weaving green and crowds of small white blossoms. I furrowed my brows, eyes narrowing. “Why do you think they’re lying to me?”

“Because they want to cover up their little secret. Everyone who works in the Bureau is like that. You recognize me, do you?”

“Sort of.”

“My name is Angel,” he smiled, extending his palm. “Our government’s a little corrupt. But at least everyone who lives in Sephasia is well.”

I only sat, staring wordlessly at him.

“I would kneel, but I am bedridden as of now, Your Grace,” I said, finally.

“Please, call me Angel.” There was that irritating grin. Nobody that I knew had told me what Angel looked like. I had only heard of his maddening conviction. They were right about that. “I’m the governor of Sephasia, by the way. I’m here because I have an offer to make.” I was listening.

“You will leave this home, abandon Rose and your father, and come with me. You will become like one of us.” He smiled, as if he had just fed me some life-changing advice. Like whom? Him? “You can’t afford to refuse. For your information, you’ll become a great help to the Sephasi government. You’ll receive donations from people like your father. You’ll leave your parasitic leech of a father.”

I wanted to. But I didn’t want to work under an unprincipled leader like him.

“Would you mind pouring me a cup of tea?” he smiled, gazing out the opened window. The breeze was cool and light today. It came to me that I was not in the place to refuse, although I could hardly move my legs. But I managed to get myself out of bed and drag my feet to my bedroom door. My hand fell sloppily onto its brass handle. After a few nudges, it finally clicked open.

I carefully worked my way down the stairs with a bitter taste in my mouth, lips tight. There were picture frames nailed above the banister, following it all the way down like a swarm of angry bumblebees blotching the ugly floral wallpaper behind them. Most of them were pictures of my father shaking hands with various rabbis and the governors of small towns. Occasionally, there were photos of me. They were all of when I was younger.

My mother’s face was not in any of them. I didn’t know why I was only realizing this now, taking in how bizarre it seemed that she wasn’t there. Perhaps I wasn’t even my father’s child. Maybe my mother was a made-up fiction my father used as an excuse for my origin. I felt my pulse quickening as I thought. It was like the fogged-up images of my past and snapshots from a handful of my memories were swirling and collecting around me as I tried to recall something, anything about my past.

*You shouldn’t keep Angel waiting*, murmured a voice, and I moved down from the last step and strode into the foyer.

There was nothing in the kitchen. It was hardly used by my family and was simply an area zoned off for the maids and servants. From time to time, I would venture in for a quick meal. It was usually scones and maybe a glass of cold milk. I reached for the unopened packet of tea laying imp on the marble counter and tore it open, tossing its contents into a tempered glass. Conveniently, the tap water was already being boiled, steaming and bubbling up in the steel pot sitting on the stove. I scooped a cupful of it up and dipped the teabag in and out of the glass in an attempt to cool it down.

*I really suck at this.*

“You snooze, you lose!” thundered a lazy voice. Angel.

“I was hoping you would’ve come up already,” he said with a yawn. “Go grab your toothbrush and kiss Rose goodbye.”

___

Bohru Castle was far smaller than I had expected. A pair of guards led me to my quarters, after I changed into a silk shirt and an ironed pair of gray trousers. There was strange music coming from outside, which became amplified as I slid a window open.

Sometimes I felt like I was walking inside of a chapel. Once every few minutes, I averted my gaze to watch the stained glass windows toss shards of gaudy light onto the limestone. I held my palm to the wall as we walked, watching the shadow that appeared beneath my hand, a perfect five-fingered print.

Finally, I was led to an area before a broad, pallid stretch of marble wall. One of the guards gestured over to the painting behind me. It conceived quite a scene—a tiger, its jaws fixed on a swordfish, laying queerly over a pink-sanded beach. Violent.

The guard bowed and started back towards where we came from.

I pressed my hand against the chilled white. Then a standard black door began to unveil itself from the white shroud, burnished to a slight shine. It was perfectly smooth when I touched it. Its material felt like acrylic but bore the dark streaks of stained wood. I clicked its handle open and cautiously placed my foot inside, anxious that perhaps an animal would appear from behind the door and tear it apart with its teeth.

___
“Enjoying yourself?” asked Angel, smiling impishly.

I brought a gilded teacup to my lips. Its porcelain handle had grown hot from the steaming liquid inside. A single drop of tea ran down one of its sides, its white warmth trailing down my thumb and into the cavern just below my palm, between its jagged tendons, green with the streaming veins beneath.

The dining table was long and draped in a white silk that would, allegedly, never stain or grow yellow as it aged. More talkative men and women were seated on the maple-wood chairs encompassing it, jeweled in pearls and matching rings, but most of the seats were empty. “I’m enjoying myself,” I answered. The tea burnt the tip of my tongue yet sizzled and cooled when I swallowed. Its candied, perfumed taste was left to bleed in a glaze along the insides of my mouth.

“What’s the music, the thing that plays outside once in a while?” I asked.

Angel’s smile faltered. “Someone moved in a month ago, you should meet him. I think you two would get along.” He sighed, moving his cheek to sit atop his curled fist. “You know the war we’re in against Astor?”

I nodded.

“Yeah, well, apparently the guy’s a convert. We examined his background. He was King Menos’ lap dog, until he decided to leave and cause quite a stir. He was also part of the One Folk.”

The Ones, the mercenaries selected by Moira’s pair of celestial hands, destined to serve and bring glory to Astor. They would eventually destroy us.

"I’m guessing he isn’t so friendly.”

“Well, actually—” his voice cut itself off. He turned his chin to look at the person seated next to me. I saw the man take in a breath, his messy and burnished hair reveling in the light. “I haven’t seen you around here before. Tell me, what is your name, young man?”

His eyes were this odd shade of hazel and he was wearing a dark woolen coat with buttons painted in this weird gloss. Or, perhaps they weren’t glossed over, and they were actually the rare coals found exclusively in Astor. I had forgotten the name of them. Wealthy, indeed.

“It’s Vance. Vance Petrosian.” He had an accent I failed to recognize and he spoke carefully, as if he was trying to examine the words coming out of his mouth before they did. The corner of Angel’s mouth twisted upward as he nodded, once again straightening his spine with unease. “I see. Hopefully we’ll get to know one another quite well, Vance Petrosian.”

Angel turned back to me. “So, Eli, there is a certain weariness that comes with living in the palace, one that newcomers don’t quite understand,” he warned. It was hard to take him seriously. I watched him continuously spoon sugar into his drink until I could see some of it pile up on its brown surface.
	
“What weariness?”

Angel’s smile vanished once again. He took in a heavy breath, no longer beaming. What made me the most weary about him was the fact that he was hardly conscious, if at all, about the things I was about to say. It was like he wasn’t expecting the question.

“Last month, I received word from our priest that everyone that stays here will die within the next five years.”

I let out a laugh, but Angel’s face was still, the surface of a lake. I had never seen him like this.

“You’re not serious.”

“You can imagine the number of people who moved out after that one,” he chuckled, stirring his tea with his spoon. I started to zone out, staring at the way the tea spiraled up in a whirl of clear auburn, churning and picking up grains of black tea dust with it; a storm constituted by the simple blows and strokes of Angel’s silver spoon.

“You’re here because you have a connection with the Moon. I don’t know exactly what it is, but it explains your hallucinations and frequent nightmares.” He frowned. “You’re scared, aren’t you?”

“I’m a coward,” I admitted.
	
He took a sip from his cup. “I can see that. I’ve had several visions of our castle, our people being ripped apart because of the war.” He closed his eyes, squeezing them shut, then opening them again. I shivered, imagining the frigid ruthlessness of the Astorgans, burning and pillaging cities as they went. Their land was poor, but their merciless king made sure to boast its military strength at every chance it got.

“We’ll lose?”

“I don’t know, but the outcome will be a costly one. And you heard about Sephis?”

“Isn’t she here?”

“The Moon Queen is here,” he said with a mellow smile, setting his teacup down and lacing his fingers together. “She’s taken over. Pretty much runs this place now, all of it.” It felt strange, how everything happening in the country was now within my reach. The mastermind behind Sephaisa’s success was sitting in front of me. He was looking me in the eye, taking occasional sips from his cup.

So, this country was now ruled over by a god, one that had taken the body of a human. My gaze wavered over to my teabag, now set over a dish-like slab of white porcelain.

“Loonish tea?” I chuckled, pronouncing its name slowly. I saw him crack a small grin. “Isn’t it great? An Islan import.”

I smiled, genuinely. It was strange to know when you were going to die. At least it forced me to take everything in, the aroma of baked carbohydrates and syrup, of steamed vegetables and roasted bird. Of royalty. I would have to reap its benefits. And help them, too.

“Would you mind? I need to have a word with Sir Eli,” said Vance, after keeping his head low for the past few minutes. “I’ve come searching for him. He is the friend of my nephew.” Angel stared at him.

“I am not Moira. Do as you wish, Petrosian.”

I was led out of the dining hall and into one of the castle’s massive chambers, watching as Vance closed the door behind him. It seemed to be a library of some sort. My nostrils caught the scents of still-warm wax candles and sheaths of dust that had gathered atop the leather surfaces of books. The room itself was around three-quarters the size of a chapel.

His grip on my arm was firm and his palms seemed to be slightly callused, healing. Then he took something out of his pocket. “Why did they bring you here?” he asked.

“I don’t know. Because I have a relation with Sephis?”

He tilted his head to the side, like I had made an error, like my answer was wrong or untruthful. Then he unsheathed what seemed to be a switchblade. I felt my pulse quickening considerably as I stepped back carefully, until my back was pressed against the shelf behind me. Vance followed. “I’m sorry. I was ordered to kill everyone like that,” he shrugged, pressing the switchblade to my forehead, his thumb lingering over its switch.
*Astorgan.*

I lived a good life. I had lived as a rich man’s son, on an estate tucked away safely into the weaving forest. It was every filthy Astorgan’s dream.
	

“Vincent,” called a voice from behind him.

For a second, I thought he would pull his weapon off my face in a frenzy. But he kept it there, eyes narrowing, flinching only slightly at the sound of his true name.

“How the hell did you get in here?”

“There weren’t many watchmen outside.”

“We call them guards, here,” went the trailing voice.

Vincent’s eyes narrowed. “Where’s Thalia?” he rasped, now pressing the switchblade’s end into my skull. If I would not die, I’d at least have an ugly bruise in that area for days. Once his finger pulled its switch, my head would be impaled. There was no healer in Sephasia that powerful.

“Ah, the Lady of the Moon. You’ll never be able to find her here. Now, before you kill him—”

“Isn’t she held in the largest chamber of the largest tower?”

The dubious voice went silent. Vincent’s eyes were still fixed into my own. Strangely, I went still.

“You want to kill her,” he said, now stepping close behind him, his hands around his back. His face was pale yet stern. “You want to restore light in Astor.”

Vincent didn’t answer for a while. “That’s my goal.”

“You want to kill the person the closest to you, to obtain what you’ve always wanted—gaining the reputation as the savior of Astor."

“I thought you hated Thalia.”

Swiftly, my fist came around to deliver a blow to his cheek, too quick for him to even think.

Vincent stumbled back in surprise.

“Southern scum!” My fist made its way around his head and into the hollow of his neck. I watched as his switchblade tumbled out of his hand to bounce over the floor, landing at the feet of the stranger. Vincent fell with a grunt, his back now up against a wooden shelf. His head, limp as a fish, lolled to the side. His lips were shut.

The stranger pursed his lips as if to wince at the sound of Vincent fumbling to the floor, then picking up the weapon that stood at his feet. His thumb rolled down its dial, unsheathing the long silver stalk from within. The man stared at it for a while. “Now, you don’t think this is what you’ll use to deliver a fatal wound to a god?” he scoffed. His grip on its leather handle grew firmer.

I considered making a run for it, but a flurry of thoughts began to whirl around in my head like the bubbles floating around in a bowl of soup---what if they started chasing after me? Did Vincent want to kill me at all? Or was he just afraid of the strange man speaking with him? I decided to stay.

Slowly, my hand came to my mouth, heels stepping quietly out of the corridor of shelves where Vincent lay. I stopped behind a broad bookshelf which seemed to be stretching into the fresca painted over the ceiling, two rows before the aisle I was just in.

“No. Philip and Jamal have the task of finding it,” said Vincent with a low grunt.

“Finding what?”

“Please. Ram’s spear. The Godkiller,” he sneered.

Ram, the sun, had forged a blade that could slice through celestial flesh. He had given it to his friend, Tagas, who used it to wound Sephis and trap her inside of the moon, which she had since eluded. She was vulnerable, now that she was walled within the body of a mortal creature. The Godkiller would do it.

"And how do you think you'll find it?"

"You're real smart, Nico. We don't have it yet."

*Footsteps.*

"Uh, we were told that it was here somewhere. After all, this was where Sephis fell into the moon."

"Good. Tell me more about it."

"It is inside of Bohru."

"This castle?"

"No, the city."

"Are you with anyone else?"

"N--Yes. Yes, I am."

"How many?"

"One other."

Then, I heard a high fumbling noise, of one man pinning the other to the terry carpet.
