## Vincent

Someone once said to me that the sky would brighten, eventually, when humanity kneeled before our Creator as a whole and pleaded for forgiveness.

But if that was true, what were the Ones for? And why would we ever do something like that?

I found myself staring up at the broad swathe of black overhead, watching the lighter parts of it shift and gather to form clouds. It was as dark and foreboding as creamy pitch left to thaw on a sultry afternoon. Oil, slick and freshly drawn from the earth.
Flocks and clusters of bright floating dots lit up the completely-dark areas--—humanity’s makeshift solution to the cryptic night.

The air, strong with the scents of poppies and just-pulled milkweed, seemed to grow thicker, becoming harder to choke back and swallow the higher I went. I didn’t have to think. Or look up, for that matter. All I had to do was climb until I reached the palace jeweling the hill. My feet scaled up the slope ahead, one after the other, stroking the hill’s yellow-grassed back. The question lingered—-what, in particular, had made me worthy to be one of Her’s?

“We’ll be good as dead before we reach those mountains,” gasped Marcus, his feet silently moving over the hill’s surface. I had forgotten he was there. I raised my gaze to look at them, their peaks looming over our eyes like a shadow, floating in a hot wash of darkness. The lady of the moon lurked behind like a hawk. Tonight, her one half was pale, the other set aglow with a garish yellow haze, the color of sulfur.

Astor’s initial sealing-off into blackness marked the very first day of our calendars. It was only beyond the High Ridges before us that there was naked sky.

“We’re headed for the palace,” I swallowed. The idea of rerouting and crossing over was tempting, but we would be punished. And it was dark. Far too dark. Though, the sight of them was strangely comforting. “They look remarkable,” I swallowed, allowing my chest to constrict with awe. I looked further upwards and saw a small blotch of white slowly tumble from the sky, down towards the High Ridges to land perhaps somewhere west of them.

Astor’s sorcerers lifted Lanterns into the sky each spring. Which was now, when the mountains’ snow came tumbling down in floods to pool at our plantations.

I remembered being dragged into a bustling crowd one year at a certain festival, their eyes all fixed on the tiny lights drifting upward. The memory was like still-warm ash. My age and the place I was watching from was all obscured. I did not remember whose hand I was holding and why I was there to begin with.

There were millions of them mottling the sky. One could make out the grass rippling far ahead because of the artificial lights, but I didn’t like to call them a miracle. The drifting lights were our stars. Each of them crept steadily and soundlessly across the sky, plummeting to the earth when they ran out of fuel. In a way, they were like us, the Astori.

“They should’ve given us horses or something.”

“Shut up, Vincent. You were the one who wanted to run off.”

‘How are we going to get back?’ I remembered him ask after we had tumbled down the Dune with the first daub of the sun’s light, our legs aching. I didn’t think it was too long ago when we decided to run. Now we had decided to turn back. “Just forget it,” I panted, “I think I’ll settle on a shower.”

A mule would be nice, too.

The mountains cast a dark glow over the hills and the valley we left behind. It was like its peaks were trapping and swallowing the meager sunlight, like a fish being lured to its hook. I hadn’t heard from anyone that attempted to cross them. Maybe they survived but decided to never return, once their eyes caught a glimpse of the sky. But how could something be that beautiful? I pictured the sun, kissing the earth. How could the sky be so beautiful?

“We’ll climb to the top of the big one in the middle someday,” I said, turning to look over at him. He let out a sneer.

“And we’ll come back?”

“Yeah.”

“Is that a promise?”

I thought about it. “Probably not,” I replied, hearing him let out a tired laugh. I felt my cheeks turning to overripe plums. Its four bases, jagged with rocks, were heavily guarded by our watchmen, ordered to shoot at the sight of anyone. You had to have a permit to climb them. I believed the process of obtaining one took months and perhaps even longer. Nobody ever really left without permission. 

“Why would anyone cross?” I probed him. I saw him clench his jaw from the corner of my eye. “When a wall is built, people can’t help but wonder about whatever’s on the other side,” he finally replied, his grips tightening on the straps of his knapsack. Then he turned to face me. “I would assume they think the grass is greener there. You do realize we’re one of the only Astori to have seen the sun.” I grimaced at the sound of his little poem. Marcus didn’t act like an archetypal easterner. He was brought up in dark, sultry Astor, but he wore his father’s stern gaze, lit with the humility only an easterner would bear. I went to Lan with him to deliver a message a few years prior. He was taller, stronger than most of them. I thought he would be pleased with how everyone shared his features. But I remembered him staring at the muted greens and reds of the Lan palace, his eyes wide and blank. He knew he wasn’t like them.
They were like creatures, the Easterners. We were told stories of them committing horrors in Isla, a string of isles in the far west. They had severed their feet and shipped them off to be sold as slaves.

“Three dead. There was a fire at a certain temple,” I whispered. Marcus closed his eyes. “I’ve definitely heard about that. It happened several hours ago.”

“Yeah.”

The moon had risen as we spoke. Its color reminded me of the ivory harvested deep within the Yellow Valley, the boundless queue of slate-gray animals being lured to their slaughter, their skin snake-scale under the Lanterns’ dying lights. I looked at the ground in front of me. “They say the Erisae is to begin in a little while,” Marcus panted, dodging the topic. “Give it until the next blood moon.”

When the moon’s hue bled into rust and sealed the sun’s rays behind its back. The streets were dead when it happened, its low bustle and clamor reduced to the tumbling of brush and wind. “Just see for yourself when we get there. Go to a temple and ask.”

“I don’t know about prayer,” I told him. I pictured myself kneeling before a totem, whispering. All that prayer and I had never gotten a response. Well, maybe I had, but never an immediate one, like everyone else’s. The answers always happened to waft over like ghosts after everything was said and done.

A sand-colored chateau began to emerge steadily in our foresight, towering at the hill’s crest, its sharp spires searing into the flat sky. It made me ask myself why I decided to run to begin with.

We pressed our feet into the tilted earth until its slope began to diminish and we were finally met with flat land. A familiar dark wall stood looming in front of us. It was black and tall and seemed to be a piece of the dark mist itself that had coiled around the lurking palace. Perhaps at the sight of us, a blue whirl of light appeared at our feet. I brought my chin to its edge. As usual, there seemed to be nothing inside. I grabbed Marcus' arm and stepped inside.

In front of us, there was a clean cobblestone path outlined with Lanterns tied to posts, a neatly-trimmed turf surrounding it, and a spiraling staircase that led to the entrance of the castle. A man was leading his fattened horse across the wooden bridge by the Villa's entrance. My eyes wavered ahead of him, at a corroded shack by one of the palace’s many orthodox towers. “How about some water?” I asked. I saw Marcus give a weak smile.

The Villa was where the palace’s many servants and workers were told to stay. It was cold, now that we were standing significantly closer to where the darkness began.

There was a narrow stretch of gravel between the rows of townhouses. Streaks of lantern-white blinked and glittered over its wet surface. Most of the grainy road was sheathed in rain. I raised my arm and gestured to a marketplace with its wooden door left ajar. An array of plants decorated the space beside its walls and strange music and cool, blue light was coming from inside.

I came back with two paper cartons of water, my hands feeling like they were starting to freeze. Dollops of water ran down its sides. Some fell to the ground, plopping down silently with freedom. I handed him one of the white cartons and he took it.

The Villa was also the place where the poor liked to wander the streets. On our way here we passed a few vagrants and homeless servants sitting with their backs against the side of the road. I found myself wondering how the vagabonds managed to climb up the Dune.

My gaze caught onto a plump woman sitting on a wet swathe of tarp. Her hand was set on the forehead of a frail girl whose face looked like it could crumble at any form of touch. Her eyes were fluttered shut and she was wearing a yellow raincoat with water dribbling down the sides, her skin pale-gray beneath the greasy lights. Her mother was rubbing her thumb over her forehead, her other hand tucked away in one of the pockets of her gray sweater.

There was a frenzy of uneaten food on the ground in front of them. I watched Marcus’ face twist with sympathy.

He nudged me on the shoulder. “Do you think we should—”

“No. Let’s keep walking.”

I’m stupid about other people. I couldn’t understand why they couldn’t just give them extra gold and food themselves. Giving to others wasn’t something the One Folk were supposed to do. Then I realized she had probably been listening to me this whole time. “Sorry,” I whispered in their direction, and dragged Marcus deeper into the Villa.

“A refugee from the west,” he said to me. The twisting feeling in my stomach loosened. I had been told plenty of stories about islanders from the far west coming to our nation to seek refuge. They had lost their ability to interpret language as collateral.

We kept walking until the shack we spotted earlier became close enough for us to open its door and slip inside. Our noses caught the sweet scents of spices and various roasted vegetables. A long slab of red heawood was placed at the front, lined with elevated velvet seats and a string of red lanterns hovering above the white carpet. A woman was reciting poetry in song as she plucked at the strings of a lute. She was accompanied by another vocalist, dressed in the white robes of a noblewoman.

A stout man about half my height, ears shaped into the tips of arrows, approached the two of us with a smile. He was dressed in dirty drapes of wrinkled linen and had leather-black hair glazed in soot.

“We’ll sit at the front,” sighed Marcus. The heavy, greasy scents of whiskey and boiled tomatoes sharpened as we moved towards the counter. It was like everything was frosted in yellow from being under the garish light. It felt like I was looking at everything through a fogged-up golden film. “Nice,” I mumbled under my breath. And it was. I heard Marcus scowl and sit himself down over the counter, burying his face in his hands. His fists began to curl, but the blackness concealing his eyes had finally eased away. His eyes were asphalt-black and beady. There was a nanosized mole by the corner of one of them and his eyebrows were thicker than mine.  “Are you okay?” I nudged him on the shoulder.

He lifted his chin. “I’m doing alright.”

I took in the warm liveliness of my surroundings as my thumb twiddled with the compass hanging from my neck, my gaze drifting lazily around the room, sizing up my surroundings and staring briefly at the faces of others. Then someone’s face caught my eye. It wasn’t long before he stared back at me, his features tensing as he ran his eyes over my silhouette.

“Nikolai Calas.” I jolted, coming to realize that the dubious voice belonged to Marcus. “What?” I muttered. He let out a quick laugh. “Don’t you two have this mutual dislike?”

“Sure,” I said with a sigh.

Niko was a member of the king’s cabinet. He was elected as a member two weeks ago, just before we decided to run off. He wasn’t much of a fighter, but he wasn’t dumb. The clasp I had on my compass tightened, sending another crack trickling down its thin glass pane.

There were three Ones. Thalia was the first one, the beginning. After that, there was me, and then Nikolai. We had all been selected four years apart. Thalia was selected and had arrived at the palace when she was barely ten.

Thalia was not an easy puzzle to solve. She was usually quiet. At one point, she only spoke when the king's court had ordered her to. I always assumed she came from a far-off, terrible place. She once spent hours in the training pavilion practicing her spear tosses, but she had grown tired, and now she just sat in her quarters, reading weird scriptures from before the day things went dark.

Gregory Gitlis’ breath smelled like heavy Esmeri spice and honeyed liquor.

“What would you both want to drink?” His voice was low and slight. “Haven’t seen you two for centuries, it seems.” He had been alive for at least four millennia. We sat our bags down against the walls of the entryway. I felt my shoulders loosen considerably. “Two cold glasses of water, and that would be all,” smiled Marcus, his gaze meeting mine for confirmation. I gave a quick nod and my stomach filled with bitterness.

The light dimmed a little and my eyes went back to staring at Niko. He was seated beside a well-dressed aristocrat, smiling. “So who’s the Erim?” Marcus asked with a sigh. I rolled my eyes. He had just asked the question that perhaps each citizen pondered about. Asking the question was futile, since there was no answer. We just had to wait.
 
There were four Ones and one of them was doomed to be selected by Eris as her human vessel, the Erim. They were supposed to be killed by the other Underlings once they were chosen. But I didn’t think it would be that easy. The Great Creator, Kaia, had once remarked that they would cause our kingdom to fall.

“It’s probably me,” I decided to say, watching him recoil. Then he went back to leafing through his magazine, shaking his head and perhaps trying to bite back a laugh. “Having dreams. Hallucinations. Is that you?”

I gave a shrug. “I don’t know.”

It didn’t take long for Gitlis to come back with our cold glasses of water, the ice cubes fumbling lightly in their glasses. I nodded in thanks, watching Gitlis pick mindlessly at his cuticles, lingering by our seats. I had respect for him since the day we met. He was an Occult, one of our mystifying beasts that evolved from regular creatures, except they had been exposed to magic in their environment one way or another. The Occult were dreaded by humanity. During one historical period, the immortal Calae tried to begin their own race and pillaged many of humanity's villages. That was, until they were taken over by another powerful group.

“Arson. At a temple in Bask,” he sighed, burying his wrinkled face in his hands. The idea of someone purposefully lighting chapels on fire appalled me. “The watchmen say it was done by a Sephasi sympathizer from Lan.” He turned to look at me.

“You three are our only hope at removing the darkness. Kill the lady of the moon, and the night will vanish.” It made me feel all the more guilty that I had ran off.

Then he cocked his head to the side to regard Marcus. “I don’t care if your father was close with his majesty. You are what you are and you’ll never change,” he glowered, his voice quivering. I felt my lips tighten. But Marcus wasn't looking at him. He was only stirring his drink with his straw, refusing to speak. He had been put in this situation before.

Sometimes it was like Gitlis forgot he was a Calae. I sighed as I ran my fingers through my hair, which had grown filthy and tousled on the journey home.

Gitlis cleared his throat. “Their kingdom prospered over time from stealing stretches of our shrinking land while we were left to starve, and I’ve seen it for myself; the nation is ruled by those damn tyrants." He stamped his cigar out on the counter, leaving another black burst on the battered wood. "They're not like us. They're ruled by a 16-person senate, except that one guy has more control than all the others. What was his name? I reckon it was something like Agnes."

I was only half listening.

"Its people are like zombies, working day and night to serve its damned monarchs.” He lifted his gaze to meet mine and lazily cupped his palm over my shoulder. His other arm reached under the counter for another cigar. “You do realize how important you and Nikolai are.”

“...Yes.”

The elf narrowed his eyes. “I hope you do. You're the reason why Kaia---” his fingernails dug into his flesh, leaving four crescent-shaped prints on his wrist.

“Why can’t they do it themselves?” Marcus asked, tilting his head to the side in boredom.

Gitlis’s brows furrowed. “What?”

"Why can't they settle their territorial disputes on their own?"

He scoffed like Marcus had just told him a sick joke. “They're weak, you idiot. The four deities don't even have vessels for their souls no more. They've gotten weaker, since Eris cast us away into darkness."

Without warning, I felt like I was about to cough up the meager lunch I had earlier. The nausea was like something crumpling up at the bottom of my stomach.

All of a sudden the music died out and everything around me began to change. The walls looked like they were moving and shifting in color, swaying with the strange, offbeat pulse of the earth. At one moment everything was blue, and then red and yellow then purple. I thought I was looking through the wing of a moth.
My chest felt like a swelling balloon that would burst eventually. The music started to sound like the groan of a man that had just been shot with an arrow.

“Thank you, Gitlis, for the drinks,” said Marcus, bowing and tossing three gold coins onto the counter’s surface. “You both aren’t going to eat?” he asked, crestfallen. Marcus shook his head. “Goodnight,” I said, raising my arm slightly in thanks.

Something pushed me downward. It was like I tripped over something. I found my palms spread out over the carpet, my legs on the floor. Everyone was staring at me. “Bathroom,” I mumbled, swaying dizzily as I took uneven steps towards the room’s corner. I saw Marcus shoot me a quizzical glance.

I locked the door and placed myself in front of its porcelain sink, taking in brief, quivering breaths as I gazed at my spinning, sickly reflection. The tiles beneath my feet were swelling and changing in shape and hue. And then I felt a cold and wavering presence, and the air grew darker. Something was there. Behind me.

I swallowed, watching her green eyes pierce through my skin like the steel point of an arrowhead.

The woman’s skin was white sand spilling from a broken hourglass and her hair was the long, sleek mane of a black stallion. “Are you afraid?” she asked, her voice white and frigid. I didn’t reply.

I was not afraid. I had seen her countless times before in dreams and various memories, watching me from behind ivory pillars and green stretches of brush. But I did not know who or what she was. Her skin was chillingly pale and her eyes were greener than the rippling scales of a forest snake. “I want a favor,” she hummed, moving towards me. The swaying end of her black evening gown faded away into the spiraling blotches of color around me as she walked. “There’s someone I want you to kill.”

“I can’t kill anyone,” I said, watching the woman’s black lips grow even thinner.

“Her name is Zoya. She is a sorceress.”

I opened my mouth to argue. “What, you can’t?” She chimed, almost tauntingly. I couldn’t move. The last time I felt like this was several months ago, during the funeral of a duke or distant relative of the king. She had visited me then under one of our multifoil arches, presenting herself to me as she was now, black gown and all.

I lifted my eyes. “I don’t know who she is. She’s done nothing to me.”

The woman’s grin only widened. She cupped her white hand over my shoulder, her bony fingers gray and bleak. “You’ll see why, after you do it.” She brought her mouth closer to my ear. I could feel her breath fogging the back of my neck. “I guess if you refuse, I’ll get your friend Nikolai to do it for me instead,” she whispered, her lips twisting into a devilish grin.

The glow of her green eyes twinkled and prickled my skin like bristles on a curry comb.

“If you let Zoya live, Marcus and Thalia will die.”

I swallowed. I had not killed anyone before, not even in self defense.

“Will I get anything in return?”

Her grin grew wider like this was all she needed, this question. “You will be paid handsomely.”

“Where is she?” My voice was frigid.

She laughed. “Do you really think I can answer? That is for you to figure out. Oh, and Philip--—he’s on the boat for Renee. I think he’s already left.”

___

The wooden dock was dappled with wet white bird droppings and the air was crisp with salt. The sky was dark as always. White-wearing soldiers shuffled in and out of boats, hauling crate after crate of cargo like ants. Among all of them, one timid-looking man caught my eye.

“The Jewel of Astor?” I asked, grabbing the linen collar of his shirt. He looked at me, eyes wide, like a rabbit that had just been caught lurking in a farmer’s garden. “I don’t—” He took in a shuddering breath, watching my eyes narrow. The wooden boards under his feet creaked as my grip on his collar tightened. “The main ship has already departed, your grace.”

I let go of him. I sighed, my chest sinking. He scurried off with a face high in color, lips quivering. The cold of night was beginning to sweep over our land. Lanterns drifted downward to illuminate the flagstone path. The gulls were still squawking pesteringly as they circled the water’s orange-streaked surface for food. They had adapted quickly to the darkness, as I was told.

It hit me that Thalia would not survive Renee.

“Vincent Dell.”

I turned to face the man behind me, dressed in formal white military attire.

It was Marcus. “I can't join them. It’s too dangerous,” he sighed. “The king has been using my talent sparingly lately, it seems.”

“How did you get here so quick?” I asked.

“Excuse me?” He scoffed. “You took twenty minutes in the bathroom. I had to leave.” Marcus gestured to my chest. “You look awful. Your hair is just…no words. Chaos.”

I let out a half-hearted laugh. “And you’re here because?”

“The king wants to speak with you.”

My face fell.
___

The throne room was a chalky, barely-used area that smelled strongly of gray dust and ash. There were no frills or adornments on the gray walls. A white carpet trailed across the long floor and stitched itself into the marble dais, where the king’s throne was fixed. “Vincent Riga,” thundered King Menos’ voice. Shadow veiled his face and crept along the side of his silhouette, down to his hands that were clutching the edge of his seat. I kneeled.

The king crossed his legs and let out a sigh. “Where the hell were you,” he breathed almost lazily, sinking deeper into his seat. I made a funny face. He couldn’t have cared less if I chose to never come back. They had said I would be good for nothing, after all. “You’ve never been my favorite, by the way.” He messed with the golden ring jeweling his finger.

His skin was the color of dry soil and his buffalo-eyes flickered as he spoke.

“How, your majesty, may I demonstrate that I am more than capable of running for cabinet again?”

“You can't.”

I lifted my chin to meet his unseeable gaze.

“Take the head of Sephasia’s ruler, and I’ll promote you. And maybe there will be another running opportunity for you. But you have to kill him.”

I would do anything to appease the king. I was like a dog, in a sense. “What would his name be, your majesty?”

“Angel.” He scowled, like the name tasted like dirt on his tongue. His heavy black eyebrows tensed at the sound of it as color flooded into my cheeks.

"There is also one object that I'd like you to find. Ram's spear. The one Tagas used to thwart Eris two thousand years ago."



“Dismissed.”

My back rose and dipped into a quick bow, and I was off.

There were two people that had to be wiped off the board.

