## THALIA

I stood, shoulders brushed back towards the battlefield of dead and dying, chewing on the miry end of my cigar. I found myself facing the portion of the rolling hills still untouched by battle. I had not dared to turn around in the past ten minutes. It wouldn't matter, I thought, my eyes fluttering shut. A light fog began to roll just overhead as the blonde grass before me rippled like a lazy tide at morning, brushed in strawberry.

But why was I being such a wuss? I turned and examined the terrain, my fingers pulling absently at the collar of my leather coat while I stared at the gory strokes of gray and bronze as they sank into the tall grass.

I had stolen the coat from an eastern pirate during a raid two years prior. The memories of that night were still fresh in my mind and were starting to flood back as my fingers traced over its hem. We'd spent our slow afternoons pulling at ropes and flinging lines into the choppy green waters. We had been tailed by a dubious-looking vessel, and after one wane of the moon, we had come back, our hands empty and half our men gone.

*In the name of Eris.*

I brought my eyes to the silky blanket which hung fully over our heads. Wisps of white drifted across the pool of ether, the clouds I had only seen in storybooks after I arrived at Bask. I thought I had had enough of sky-marveling after we left our territory, but the grace of it all felt vaguely familiar to me, leaving a slight tugging sensation at my chest. I had seen it before I arrived at Bask, but where? The feeling had definitely been felt before. Perhaps I had felt it on the voyage to the east. We were all exposed to the sun, then. My skin had been tanned and flushed in several areas upon our return.

The hills, the portion untouched by battle, were melon-green and laced with gold. The sky was burning yellow and the scent of warm butter was wafting over, dragging through the unwilting air. Crowds of vivid wildflowers dappled it alluringly in jagged clusters of yellow dots. It was beautiful, yes, but once I turned around, the scenery changed.

“Thalia,” Jamal wheezed, brawling with a fat and heavily-armored aristocrat. His dark skin was rippling coffee under the sun. “Why are they not coming to you?” His opponent was built like a boar, framed with heavy slugs of thick muscle. The thought of helping Jamal crossed my mind. Briefly.

“I don’t think they know who I am.” I didn’t know if he could hear me. I let out a grunt, my teeth fixing themselves on my cigar. I knew I would find someone eventually.

But I had no idea what I was doing.

My feet began working their way down the hill as my finger mindlessly toyed with the clasp of my shield. I pulled a javelin out from my clasp and locked eyes with an armored stranger, taking in the brackish scent of festering corpses. The area around my eyes was presumably pink from getting used to the sunlight spilling in.

He wore only a breastplate and his face was flushed with the characteristic haze of nobility. It wasn’t long before he started running into me like a brainless decoy, the scent of northern herbs heightening as he stepped closer. His stature crumpled just moments later, blood streaming from a gash at his side. I slowly ran my finger along my dagger’s reddened half. There was something about taking a life that I always found dimly appealing. It was valorous. Romantic, even.

His hands were clamped over his breast where my sword had struck him. His skin was light and his hair was a tawny gold. I would likely forget about him in a couple hours, I reminded myself, my prickling eyes squeezing themselves shut. I thought of the relationships I had formed within Astor's brilliant, noble circle. Did this man have someone he cared for as well?

I frowned. The thought was only going to make me feel sorry. Most likely, the man was the prissy son of a noble, trained carefully and thrown into the battlefield because of his frequent complaints. Maybe he had this dumb covet for spilling blood, so gaudy his pops bought him an intricate set of silver dons. The thoughts were like excuses. God, I would've hated it if I were him, being put to death as a nameless bloodthirsty son, tossed in a public cemetary.

The body of a man crashed into the soil before my feet, their silver dons glinting under the red sun. His cheeks were beet-red and his chin swam in a puddle of fat. As he stared back at me, an arrow flew sharply into his belly, screaming so loud I thought his head would burst and splatter me in red. I let out a yelp and stepped further into the hill’s trough.

I felt awkward as I just stood there and watched, not knowing how I was expected to move or how much protection I was supposed to wear, although I had been appointed as second-in-command. The king thought I would do well. I had been schooled on warfare with Marcus, but I decided to squeeze my eyes shut and undermine the consequences of forgetting everything I was taught.

I was the only Underling that planted their foot forward when parliament declared war on Sephasia. But there was Marcus and Nikolai and Philip. I didn’t know why he insisted so strongly on me being here. And I was ignored like I was a ghost, nobody questioning me as my feet were planted on the edge of a hill and my eyes stared straight ahead. *Did Menos want me dead?*

My skin was suddenly met with a hollow cold. The sky grayed profoundly and my hair began to catch its beady raindrops as they plummeted into the earth. A warm cloud of steam spawned in front of my lips as I exhaled, the hairs on my neck standing up straight. Battle shrieks and slashes of sword began to clash with the eerie pitter-patter of rain.

Rainfall was always considered a bad omen. It filled me with the strong feeling that something terrible would happen.

I didn’t know how I knew about the arrow. It was like I could smell it piercing through fat raindrops and the sharp exhales of men, heading straight towards my chest. There were quite a few following it. Regardless of how many there were, I dodged, under the lurking gaze of a Sephasi soldier. It was like an ominous metaphysical force was trying to keep me alive. I watched as the soldier’s eyes narrowed.

“What do you think you’re doing here?”

His face was dark yet veiled in the sun’s florid glow, and a collection of medallions and badges decorated his rain-soaked chainmail. It then occurred to me that I didn’t look like a soldier. Perhaps he thought of me as a brainless wanderer or vagrant. Knowing this, I started moving towards him.

“Sweet Tagas,” I breathed, my hands unsheathing a dagger and watching his blade nail against mine, making a few helmeted heads around us turn with a jostle. A flurry of sparks fluttered down to our feet and a familiar jolt coursed through my body. He pulled his sword away, but I knew better than to lurch forward for a free strike. I had a friend who etched the latter in my head. If I seized the opportunity, his blade would come around to meet the trough at my neck. I was tall enough to look him in the eye. I studied him carefully.

The grip on my dagger tightened. I knew exactly who I was trying to kill. The edge of my blade grazed his shirt and a few of his medallions came loose and fell from his chest. My mind began plotting out a way to have his back against the ground. I pointed the blade back towards my chin and smacked him across the jaw with its hilt. His feet stumbled back with surprise. His eyes narrowed and he dropped his sword.

He delivered a slow punch to my lip, bringing the warm flesh of my cheek to my ear. His curled fist threw me back a good three paces. I grunted as my tongue was washed in the familiar taste of iron. “I’m dead,” I cursed quietly, spitting out a fitful of watery blood. More armored men were probably going to join him soon. I rolled up my sleeves with haste, my cheek now streaked with a faint blue. The man laughed.

He kicked me, again and again like I was a stray puppy that had stolen his lunch. I grunted over and over, my legs trying not to waver. Then they finally gave way and I let out a gasp as my back crashed into the soft grass. My sword was lost somewhere among the weeds. My heart felt like it was pulsing high in my throat, my arm desperately patting the grass, trying to find it somewhere. He tilted his head to the side and shrugged, taking his blade and bringing it to his chest. I closed my eyes.

I thought of the training pavilion. I thought of being everyone’s favorite in the yearly tournament held in the palace. And then I rolled away, picking up a red-doused spear from the grass and throwing it towards his chest. He dodged.

I picked up my sword. He charged into me with his fist, but I ducked under his arm and wrapped my arms around his waist. Swiftly, I tackled him, then setting my legs on top of him and pinning him against the grass. I punched him again and again until his face crumpled and his cheek turned purpler than mine. “Surrender your troops,” I panted.  I was sure it was the first time I had purposefully struck somebody outside of the training pavilion.

“No,” he refused. The man raised his eyes with triumph and spat into my boot. “Fucking Northerners,” I seethed, watching him recoil as my foot struck him soundly in the gut. I tore one of his medallions from his groaning body and wadded its cold surface back into my leather pocket.

My clothes were cold and heavy with rainwater. I picked at my teeth as I examined the gray horizon for another familiar face. There was always a feeling of anxiety that accompanied a battle. I felt like a fugitive.

Among the shouts of injured men and clattering of metal, I managed to make out the sound of feet moving towards me steadily through the tall, wet grass. It sounded like he was walking through a stretch of marshland. I stood still, keeping my back towards him.

“Don’t you have anything better to do?”

I whipped my head around. You, I thought, my teeth gritting.

His limbs were slender and lean, and he looked a lot more like me. He was graceful. Like a mountain lion; lithe and nimble with sharp, beady eyes. Like his brother, his skin was warm bronze and his eyes were swaying foxtail. “I could have gotten to him on horse, but one of your men shot it with an arrow,” he drew his sword, his voice a surprising snarl.

My gaze floated over to his gloves. They looked to be fashioned from a fine black silk, pulled up to his elbows, catching the sun’s grayed light. I unsheathed a long blade as he did. He was at least a foot shorter than me, but was rumored to be untouchable, I had to recall. I suddenly felt insecure. My sword was lying somewhere in the grass and I had only a dagger tucked away in my belt.

“I thought he was you,” I told him, swallowing. The steady beats of my chest began to overwhelm the distant blares of horns and the tearing of steel. He shrugged and brought out his own weapon, a pretty thing. I thought of how it would feel to wrap my fingers around its leather grip when I was finished with him. Only the thought didn’t ease my anxiety.

A necklace hung from his neck, its pendant dangling from a fine black chain. It glowed a formidable shade of violet. I don't know why it caught my eye. “What a beautiful—”

His sword was sharp. Sharper than my own, I realized,  as it was pressed against mine. I pushed it away and he forced it downwards, our blades parting with a high clattering sound.

His strokes were quick yet thoughtful. I jabbed at his feet and missed, blocking each of his swift attacks with the surface of my shield and occasionally the metallic rim of my dagger. The point of his sword grazed my forearm and streaked it with red. Then I somehow managed to steadily draw him back into the direction he had come from. Our metal shields and swords clattered and fumbled as we fought.

I felt it soon growing tedious. His blows became more predictable every time he struck and I felt my anxiety diminish.

He aimed for my upper body with persistence, striking towards my chest and shoulders each time. The man reminded me of someone I knew. My eyes were giddy with the idea of me defeating him, of his head plunging into the grass and the point of my dagger grazing his neck. When he lurched into me to strike, I brought my head down and wrapped my arms around his waist, bringing my left foot around to settle behind his boot, then pushing it back to make him slip. It didn’t take much force for him to fall. I watched his face meet the hard soil a moment later.

My gaze drifted over to the amulet dangling from his neck, which was flaring angrily with purple surges of light, and I dropped my sword, huffing. Why was it doing that?

It began to quiver and sent beams of indigo light into the air around me. Its glow veiled the face of the Sephasi general and finally sent one last ray of light in my direction, causing surges of electricity to trickle up my legs and rush through my mind.

My vision went dark as my head met the wet floor with a thud.

____

I was sitting within concrete walls. The ground was cool to the touch of my palm and the air was sour with a scent I knew all too well. Wherever I was, my mind was adrift, unable to act upon whatever was happening—left to soak in a thick, milky haze.

The setting seemed awfully familiar and I had a sickening feeling I knew what was going to happen. My arms were small and so were my legs. It came to me that I was now a child. The faces of my mother and father hung over us dubiously like dark balloons stinking of cheap liquor, floating over a hazy sea of black. Soon, their hands were grabbing sharply at our wrists and dragging us out the door. I felt their nails dig mercilessly into my flesh.

As if handling a corpse, I felt someone throw my body outside, my head meeting the paved ground with a low thump. ‘Come here, Lorelei,’ my mother said in her flat voice, extending her arm. The sides of her yellow teeth glinted under the cold moonlight. I smacked it away, feeling a warm gush of tears spill across my cheeks.

Dark and thorn-studded rose vines wrapped around her arm and dangled from her forefinger, its flowers withering as she clamped her gaunt fingers around my wrist. Its thorns dug into my skin and then recoiled, leaving a flurry of marks the color of chilled wine. “What’s the matter?” She teased, her voice a horse’s whinny. I looked up at her and saw the head of a bony mule stare back into my eyes.

A dark, menacing figure. A stranger. They grabbed me by my other arm and dragged me along the wind-swept pavement. Where? I didn’t know.

___

I found my body sprawled over a patch of tall grass. The only things I could hear were the soft murmuring of men, perhaps in pity.

A gush of soft wind brushed up against my copper skin. The pain in my chest was like something searing. What an awful memory, I thought, clenching my jaw. I could’ve stood up there and then, but realized that I had just been impaled. A few feet from me lay my sword, its blade looking as if I had never touched it. A stream of fire ants were traveling over its hilt as if it were a stick.

Blood?

I realized I was laying in a pool of red. I brought my fingers to where I thought was its source, a spot dangerously close to my heart. But then a gush of it came flowing into my mouth, and my tongue was washed in the brackish taste of iron.

Get up, said the lingering voice in my head. I obeyed, despite the pain and my shuddering legs. But my limbs came crashing back down to the hardened soil almost instantly.
