##THALIA

“Are you alright?” asked a foreign voice.

I had always hated the way Sephasians pronounced their vowels. Every click of his tongue sounded ugly and flat. I let out a laugh. Did I look like I was alright? I brought my arm to my stomach and felt the familiar coarseness of medical tape. How kind of them, I thought, my jaw clenched. I tried to get back to my feet like a strained animal.

“Who are you?” I demanded through gritted teeth, meeting his gaze. His arms were gloved and he was wearing a necklace, a murky violet, the color of a fresh bruise. A red candle was flickering somewhere outside of whatever I was in. The space smelled strongly of clay and damp wood. It took me a moment to realize that I was locked inside of a prison cell.

At first I didn’t know who was talking to me. Then I remembered his amulet, which had settled down almost completely. It was no longer glowing as it had been a few seconds ago. “Jasper,” he sighed, his eyes twinkling. “I’m surprised an Astori such as you doesn't know my name.” Scorn was written in his every syllable. He picked at his cuticles stupidly through his gloves. It came to me that he was an odd man.

“You’ll be released from your cell soon, as long as you agree to one thing.” Jasper leaned into the bars of my cell. “We’ll also give you gold. Lots of it. You’ll even sit on a throne.”

“I’m sorry,” he added. It was a nice touch.

“Switch sides.”

If I were a common soldier, I would probably be dead. Jasper had stabbed me a few inches below my heart, too precise for an accident. I pictured him hovering over my blank expression, thoughtfully deciding where his blade should pierce through my skin. He held his arms up and chuckled. “You almost killed me.”

I rolled my eyes. I could have, if it weren’t for whatever happened. If it weren’t for his necklace, which looked grayish brown under the light, which was growing redder. The lighting was deceptively warm. He brought his arms behind his back and started pacing about the prison hall. I could hear the scurrying of mice claws and slow dribbling of water. “Why do you even bother?” I asked, looking down at the damp floor beneath my leather boots, frowning.

Jasper smiled. “All I seek is information, Lieutenant,” he replied, his slender fingers ruffling through his hair. I let out a sneer. Then it looked like something clicked within him. “Nikolai Calas, your king’s pet rabbit. Do you know him personally?” He asked, his gloved fingers lacing around the bars of my cell. I took a moment to study his expression. Why was he asking me? What could he possibly use my answer for?

“I will not say,” I answered finally with a sigh, watching his eyes narrow.

“Then tell me what you know about your…Royal Family.”

“Shut up.”

“Tell me about your friend Vincent, at least.”

I let out a soft gasp. My lips parted, but I didn’t say a word.

I saw a smirk blossom on Jasper's face. “Oh, I see,” he snickered. It was then when I realized that I had been a fool. I could’ve easily escaped ages ago.

“You do realize it wasn’t wise for you to keep me here, Jasper,” I raised my chin.

His eyes widened. I turned around to face the now-empty jail cell, a smirk spread plainly across my face. “Now point for me, Jasper. Which way is the exit?” I leaned into him, watching his hand travel down to his belt. “How the hell did you do that?” His voice was a skimpish little thing. I could feel his pulse quicken as he stepped deeper into the dungeon. “Magic,” I seethed, watching his face pale. It wasn’t magic. I was just scaring him.

Jasper unsheathed a pocket knife as if urging me to stay back. But I only stepped closer to his frail figure, my icy hands tucked loosely in the pockets of my fleece. Did he really think I would be frightened by that? He looked at me like I was about to use my magic to light his eye sockets on fire or something.

His skin was wiped clean of dirt and his light hair was slicked back. The folds of his eyelids had disappeared, and dread was coming over his face in surges. I brought my face close to his.

Do it, my face read. I anticipated the feel of his knife cutting through my skin and worming through my stomach, but the moment never came.

The opportunity was there.

___

The Sephasi palace was larger than I had anticipated. I saw castle watchmen eye me suspiciously as I walked, with a quick stride in my step, like a foreign soldier. Perhaps the idea of me being a threat had crossed their minds, but they overlooked it.

Its interior was far more beautiful than that of the Astori palace. I lost count of the number of waterfalls there were, spewing crystal-like water the color of eastern jade. There was a marble statue of Sephis and Tagas in every corner of its rooms. You would be fined if an Astor Inspecter found one of those in your home.

A watchman whispered something into the ears of another, his eyes tailing me as I walked past numerous hallways in search of an exit. I looked away like I didn't notice. My fingers rummaged through the pockets of my coat, finally pulling out a box of candy and tearing it open ravenously. I hadn't eaten since morning. I tossed a fruit drop into my mouth, washing my tongue in liquid sweetness.

The floorboards were made of polished wood and the walls were made of a stone I couldn’t quite recognize. I knew what it was, but I just couldn’t put my finger on its name. Flustered, I furrowed my brows as my feet moved over the smooth wooden staves.

There weren't just candy in that box of sweets. I pulled out a matchstick and rubbed it against the hoarse collar of my coat. After a few fruitless strikes, its crimson tip lit up like a Volcan Firefly, and I smiled knowingly to myself. I was going to make a hell of an escape. My gaze wafted around the room and my grin grew wider. Everything was terribly flammable.

I shook it wildly, the tip of my thumb burning up with heat as my gaze darted around the hall for something dry. Plants. Linen. Anything.

My gaze hooked on to that of a house servant, dressed in lavish heaps of silk. We didn't treat them like that in Astor. Her lips pursed together like warm folds of purplish satin, and her eyes were the shade of Bajan coffee, the deepest brown. She looked away timidly as I caught sight of her, pressing her towels deeper into her chest.

I threw the steaming match at her, watching her stir and yelp with panic. The towels in her arms dropped to the marble floor. That got the attention of the watchmen.

I flinched with realization: it then came to me that the walls were made of limestone.

“Are you okay?” My voice cracked, my feet rushing over to her. I brought my hand to her forehead. It was cold. “She has a fever!” I urged, gesturing for the watchmen. As soon as they scurried over to us with confusion, the towel was already torn up, hissing and glowing hotter with red blaze. “What’re you—”

I brought my hand over her shoulders and lifted her up. My mouth came to her ear. “You're coming with me,” I whispered, catching the scent of her breath—candied olive and sweetened wine. I looked back behind us and saw the watchmen mumbling frenziedly to themselves, who watched as the blaze tore through the palace floors and strode closer to the edges of its rooms. I watched as the flames climbed the greenery hung across the limestone walls and swallowed the pallid ceiling whole with dangerous speed.

I didn't know where we were going. Perhaps the house servant knew the palace better than I did. My tongue worked with the last of the piece of candy as I brought her into a small corridor, our chests heaving.  I fixed my hair, which had fallen down to my shoulders, and cupped my hands over her shoulders. “Where's the nearest exit?” I asked, feeling her dress’ cool satin material. Her chin raised itself slightly to the left, her lip quivering.

There was a door right there. I felt stupid as I looked over at it.

“I am Thalia. What's your name?” I asked, extending my arm, listening to the despairing shouts from behind the door. The house servant’s face was pale and delicate, like she would crumble to the touch. “Natalie,” she replied weakly, her black eyes turning to glass. It came to me that there was something wrong with her. “Come, Natalie,” I said, seizing her wrist. As soon as my palm met her skin, I pulled away with a jolt. I pushed the door open and gestured for her to follow, frowning.

We ran across the courtyard until our feet became blue and sore, and a tall black gate stood towering before us.

“I remember this,” Natalie huffed. I brought my finger to my lips and stared at what was left of the Sephasi chateau. The structure was a dangerous scarlet, its body swelling uneasily with crimson light. Heavy tufts of black smoke wafted over and prickled my nostrils. The shouting of men could be heard all the way from its gates, though faint.

“But I can’t go.”

I pressed my hand to my forehead. “Natalie, do you wish to be free or not?”

“Are you kidding? After you massacred all of them?” She shrieked.

I took in a breath and pressed my eyes shut. There were many before them that I had killed, I wanted to tell her.

On my first day working in their fields, I slipped a handful of grain under my linen shirt, beneath the looming gaze of an adult in hiding. Then they all began to gather around me. One of the men lifted up his cane and gave it to another. The eight of them took turns dealing blows at me, chanting in a language that I could not yet understand. My mind, still green and unripe with youth, did not know why they hit me, laughing as the sun reddened and waned.

And then there was a light. Perhaps it was the sun, or the golden crown of a king. Their face was a shadow. He raised his spear and killed all of them like slicing through ripe melons. My face and the crops around me were splattered in red. I watched their skewered corpses fall to his feet. ‘Take it,’ I believed he said, beads of sweat hanging from his skin like dewdrops, pressing his steel blade to my chest. I did not know what to make of it. I couldn’t understand Astori.

I pulled out a necklace from the pockets of my blouse and pressed it to my lips, my fingers toying with its jagged shape. “This was a gift from a friend of mine,” I told Natalie flatly. It bore the crest of royalty.

A soft gasp left Natalie’s lips. “You are…Astori?”

I nodded. “I lead the war against Sephasia. This is what I came here for.” I extended my arm and gestured over at the burning castle. Her small hands pushed me away from her sharply. “Leave off!” Her voice was hoarse. “I thought you were a refugee.”

The sides of her face were a warm orange, the color of a crackling hearth. I gave a slow nod and creaked the gate open. “I understand.”

I did not take my eyes off of Natalie as she ran.

I looked up into the sky through the intertwined offshoots of trees, black as spilled ink and dappled with stars. There were no watchmen before the palace gates, I came to realize. Was Sephasia really that safe?

Our lives were like leaves and pebbles floating down a river, choked with stones varying in shape and color. But where would that river lead? Would it lead to us winning the war? Perhaps its course and direction were in the hands of a certain deity, the one our king sacrificed to at every feast.

I came to the conclusion that I probably needed a smoke. And a hot bath.

