## VINCENT

I awoke with a dry, unsettling taste in my mouth.

Frowning, I brought my finger to my lip. I did something different each morning to make sure I was awake. To me, there was no telling of what was real and what wasn't. My dreams were like real scenes flickering before my eyes as I slept. I managed to lift myself out of bed after a few minutes of staring blankly into my bedroom walls.
The carpet was warm. It was like someone had sat there while I slept, watching my chest heave. The thought sent a chill down my back.
Today was Tuesday, I told myself. Though it wasn’t like I cared. My days smudged together like char, the remnants of a flame. In the mornings, I would consume a breakfast of cheese and mutton, and when the clock struck ten, I would find Thalia and report to the training grounds. If I wanted to, I’d spend a couple hours at the diner with Marcus.
It was currently seven-thirty.
I brought myself over my porcelain sink and tossed an icy lap of water onto my face. My skin stung. I tried recalling last night's dream, but when I sifted through my thoughts and swam through countless memories as I always did, I couldn't. It was a strange feeling, to not know something. It was a sensation I seldom felt.
The hellhound was tall and black and you could barely see its face. I felt that it was looking at me from the dark corner of my room, watching me change into a pair of red jeans and a t-shirt. It hung over my shoulder like a shadow. I flipped the switch by my door and the room was suddenly filled with cool, artificial light. The hellhound was grabbing me, now, its hands clamped over my shoulders, whispering something in my ear.
It didn’t matter. Sighing, I ran a wooden comb through my hair and stared at my dimmed reflection. A deep frown was spread patently across my face. I didn’t even notice I was frowning. Any stranger would’ve said I looked a real mess. A heavy black had gathered beneath my eyes, and I was still wearing the shirt I slept in last night. The others would think I didn’t sleep at all. The hellhound wasn’t there.
A doleful sensation came over me. Something was missing.
“You have a visitor.” My servant, Louis, was knocking at my door.
I pursed my lips. Among the two people who ever bothered to stop by my quarters, it was most likely Niko. I found myself wondering why he was even here. Exhaling, I brought myself to a slab of stained-glass, tinted with a variety of enchantments, and slid it open.
“Word is another one of Moira’s has been singled out,” Nikolai greeted, his tone light and balmy, as if the King didn’t just declare war on Sephasia. I didn’t know why he was telling me this. Word of another Underling was common knowledge by now. “We can’t know who they are yet, but they’re going to be the last.” His shoulders were brought back and his hands were tucked loosely in the pockets of his gilded kavuki. I found it amusing how he always dressed like a prince. He wasn’t.
“Is the other one in the palace?” I blurted out.
“Probably. I don’t know.”
A smirk flourished on Nikolai’s face. I felt the anger bubble up into my throat like it was a steaming geyser. “Why’re you even here?” I asked, sounding more angry than I had meant to. But he only smiled. “The rebellions are getting worse. I traveled down to a certain seaside town yesterday evening. They were mad about the prices.”
“What prices?”
“The Lanterns. They’re mad about how they don’t get paid enough.”
“Yet we charge so much for them,” I said, turning around to face him. His smile had disappeared. He was just standing there, his hands in his pockets. “There’s something I’d like to show you.” He gestured over to the staircase down the hall that nobody ever bothered to go up; hidden from the eyes of common individuals with a variety of eclectic spells. When I first came here, I was told it was built with timber thousands of years old.
I don’t know why I followed him.
It took a while for us to step down the decadent hall and up the abandoned flight of spiraling stairs. The space was small and fragrant with warm spice. It was strangely comforting.
I followed him up the last carpeted steps and into an unfamiliar corridor, being met with a smooth, cherry-wood door towering before me. Its frame was engraved beautifully with intricate designs depicting the creation of our world—Moira raising Tagas and Sephis from flames. “We’re not going in,” he sighed, watching me gape at the artwork. Nikolai turned to face the wall to our left and pressed his hand to it as if there was something there.
I was trained to tell whether or not a shrouding enchantment had been cast, and all I saw was a mushy spread of ugly wallpaper. The Jewel of Astor, I thought, clenching my jaw.
He muttered something under his breath, his face suddenly growing stark.
“I—”
Before I could even begin my sentence, a tall glass door faded into sight from the floral shroud. I let out an awkward laugh. “The library. It was hidden from us, but the king showed it to me earlier, and I thought you’d like to see it,” he grinned, twisting its knob and pulling it open. It revealed a small, cupboard-like room filled to the brim with old books.
The scent of spices deepened as I stepped into the chamber.
“They say the most dangerous forces in the human world are ideas, Copland, and this is a room brimming with them.” His eyes twinkled. But his smile dimmed when our gazes met. “We can’t find these books anywhere else, you know. And I thought you were the well-read one.” For some reason, I let out a laugh, watching Nikolai’s eyes narrow through my own. “What’s the matter with you?”
“Niko, you’re sixteen. You’re not old enough to drink.” I sneered. I wanted him to feel ashamed of himself. “So? What’s that got to do with this?”
“Why’d you act like—” I laughed, “like the king’s gonna choose you to be his pet or something?”
He looked me dead in the eye. “You're younger.”
“I know.” Perhaps he was trying to read my expression, my face sullen and brows furrowed almost angrily. My lips twisted into a synthetic smile as I brought my finger to one of the books. The Truth and Everything in Between, its title read. It was written by a man named Richard Eno. It seemed interesting. I thought about slipping it under my arm and bringing it back downstairs, but the thought left my mind when I looked around.
“Er—who told you about this place?” I asked, my gaze fixed on the designs my finger drew over its thin veil of dust. I could feel Niko’s grin looming over my shoulder. “I already told you. King Menos.”
What time was it? I glanced over at my watch and read the time—quarter to nine. “Excuse me, I have to leave,” I stammered, quickly shoving the manifesto under my arm. Nikolai’s smile vanished. Breathing a long sigh of relief, I paced out of the chamber and back down the spiraling steps. It was just a stack of paper sewn together, one that I was sneaking into my bedroom.

As I walked down the multifoil arches of the courtyard and into the South Wing, I ran into a doleful-looking girl with sweeps of silvery hair and red eyes. Moira.
A thread of lush vine hung invitingly above her forehead. Her legs were crossed over a marble bench, dismal in contrast to her pale complexion. In her arms was a paper bag brimming with uneaten grain. A flock of gray birds pecked at her feet. Some were perched tamely on her head, atop her ghostly silver locks. “Good morning,” I greeted.
“What do you want, Copland?”
I pursed my lips as I thought of an answer. “Her name is Zoya Goswell. Where can I find her?” I almost jolted when I saw Moira’s eyes narrowing profoundly. It was like they were getting redder. “Why, Copland, do you wish to know?” she seethed. Her hair seemed to billow threateningly in the breeze and her voice was like that of a snake’s.
“I’m sure you know why.”
“You’ll regret doing this.”
“I know.”
She tilted her head to the side as her eyes dulled a little. “Tell me, young man. Why do you care so little? It seems like you don’t care about the outcome of our political conflict and about how we will end up gaining our liberation. Maybe we should start sending you to lessons on the weekends.”
“I do, it’s just—something’s telling me I have to find her.”
“What is that something, if not me?”
“Do you not already know?”
She opened her mouth, yet said nothing. “I don’t know everything, Copland.”
“Why do you care about her so much?” Ah, screw me. Too direct.
“She is…our future,” she sighed, but her eyes lifted in resignation. “She will come to me, when the time comes.” Moira tossed a handful of grain into the flagstone. Sighing, I started back towards the palace.
The King waits for you in his throne room, echoed a divine voice in my head, one that clearly wasn't my own. I turned myself around and saw Moira smiling dubiously at me, her white hand being pecked at by gray birds.

A long hallway decked with flowering vines and crystal chandeliers led me into the king’s throne room. The space was thick with the scent of expensive perfume. I wondered why a throne room even existed. Couldn’t his grace address Astor’s issues in the comfort of his office?
When I got there, I found Nikolai already standing on the dais beside the king, muttering something under his breath and making the monarch laugh. He had no need to kneel, as he was one of the king’s advisors.
King Menos was a pious man, devoted to his country and a strong believer in Moira’s word. After all, his fate was in her hands. At every feast he would slit the throat of a beast in her name. I had seen it. I saw the goddess’s lips thinning in content with the sacrifice, and the animal writhing in pain as its head crashed into blood-flecked stone.
“Your excellency,” I greeted, pressing my knee to the carpet beneath me. I realized I was still dressed in the shirt I slept in.
“Stand up.” His voice was suddenly sharp.
“We are strong enough, now, that our collection of Underlings is complete.” He eyed the stains on my shirt and let out a low grunt. “I’m going to ask you to join Thalia in Renee.” Renee was a seaside town situated somewhere along the Sephasi coast. The city had been ours several decades ago. I pictured Thalia, pushing back their army rank by rank. It was not a surprise we were working to get it back.
There had been word in the palace of their talented lieutenant. He, as far as I knew, ruled the land with a person named Angel. “When will I leave?” I asked, my voice cracking. I saw Nikolai grin from the corner of my eye.
King Menos let out a hearty laugh. “I’ll give you a few days to pack.”
A gust of unnatural wind blew up against us, sending the king’s florid robes billowing in the air. I was supposed to be used to this by now. I raised my chin to see the king beam at the red-eyed goddess, shifting his weight in his plump seat. It was as if her childish figure was conjured from thin air.
I glanced over at Nikolai, who seemed…unwell. His fingers were toying with the hem of his bishop sleeves and his eyes were clouded with weariness. I frowned at the sight of him. I didn’t like to see the others in bad shape.
Half the population was in love with Nikolai. Everyone knew who he was: the shining jewel of our country, reveling in the light of the throne itself. Princesses and duchesses of our allied nations had asked for his hand countless times, and he refused. He had matters to settle.
And I had never seen him so anxious before.

I kicked a marble stone sharply with my foot. It dribbled for a couple feet and landed in a patch of unkempt brush. I hated walking. I might as well sleep outside, I thought, my jaw clenched. My gaze drifted upwards to meet the gray sky, falling into a nasty orange puddle. Its canopy was flecked with white lights.
He cleared his throat. “It is our duty to destroy Sephis. It was what we were prophesied to do. And we are stronger than you think, Vincent.” I winced. Our military was disciplined, yes, but their inured minds were no match for the Sephasi. Their country was an economic superpower. “Lieutenant Jasper. Who is he?” I questioned, turning to face him. Nikolai was familiar with the political figures around the world. The king named him Astor’s ambassador before he turned fourteen, and he’d spend a third of his life traveling from kingdom to kingdom.
“He’s their leader, or so they say. There was another one, too—Angel.”
“Have you seen his swordplay?”
Nikolai made a sound like laughing. “Of course not.”
I suddenly felt like a fool.
“You wanna grab lunch at Angelina’s?”
He shook his head and let out a long sigh. “I have errands to run, Copland.”

