##ZOYA

I found myself in a plump bed, wrapped in a satin robe that shone faintly under a warm light. Beside me was a small table, on it a box of chocolates and a metal tin brimming with fresh cigars. It then came to me that I was in the home of a nobleman. I felt pampered, the tension in my skin finally easing away to just particles. My dark hair wasn’t held up in bands but was left to dangle in messy sweeps. It seemed to be a different color than before, no longer the color of Catavan sand, but warm, wet soil left out to sizzle on a humid afternoon.

I tried moving my legs but a heavy weighted quilt kept them down. The bedsheets were cold and smooth, which made a strange lisping sound when I ran my fingertips over them. Then the memories of the other night dragged themselves into my mind like the last bit of dream you get each night, the only part you can remember.

“Good afternoon, Lady Goswell,” voiced a flat, nasally woman. The lady bowed her head slightly as it ememrged from the marble door behind her. “I'm sure you have questions.” There was distaste written in her every syllable. Her pudgy face was wrapped in a shawl, the one housekeepers usually wore. She was clearly a servant. ‘Naomi,’ her badge read. I let out a slight sound of disgust. Then something came over me, a realization.

"Who brought me here?" I asked, my fingers absently inching themselves up my arm, which had been draped in silk the color of dewdrops. Her vowels were flat and dull, like an aristocrat’s. *Born and raised in Bask*. "I'm sure you have other questions. I don't think I have the right to answer them for you, unfortunately." I watched her lips grow white with tension. I didn't have the energy to respond, though I felt my chest grow giddy with the idea of aristocracy. I had never gone near the bedroom of a lord.

The servant was clothed in a red koyle, her hair tied up in a bun with braids trailing out of it and spilling themselves onto her forehead like veins. She seemed to be about thirty or forty. If she happened to be younger, I would have apologized. A white chiffon was wrapped around her neck. She had applied white pigment to the area around her eyes and drew in red dots beneath them, making her look like a priestess. I watched as she moved her skinny, poised stature out of the room, carefully arranging her fingertips on the door in the most mannered way possible, then slipping her head out, her body following behind her. I started to feel sick.

Then she returned with another man. He was at least a foot taller than the stubby woman and his hands were tucked respectfully behind his back. He was dressed head-to-toe in a deep wine-red. His eyes were gray, almost white. There was a streak of dark running vertically down his lip. A scar. He smiled coldly and bowed his head. "May I ask you what your name is?" His voice was low and husky.

"Zoya. It's Zoya."

"Just Zoya?"

"Yes."

"Well, from now on, you'll be Zoya Kaianiv." He smiled, as if this was all he wanted to tell me, like our conversation was done. But he was just standing there. "My name is Philip. I'll be helping you find your way around here, so feel free to give a holler. And I'm here because you have lessons."

My eyes narrowed. Was this some sort of wealthy boarding school?

"Lessons?"

I had never been good with academics. And my mind was still clouded from the other day, before everything went dark. "Please tell me why I'm here."

"Oh. Naomi hasn't broken the news yet?" he turned to glance and Naomi, whose cheeks reddened with embarrassment. "That's alright. Well, for starters, you aren't an ordinary girl. You've been selected.You've been selected by the Creator to serve our land."

I felt my pulse quicken. I didn't know what to say, only staring at the scar on his lip, clearly in some sort of daze.

Then the servant lady left the room and I started to think of all the advantages that being a One would bring forth. For one, it was living in the palace, and it was a position honored more highly than that of kings. Probably. The thought of hunger wouldn’t cross my mind ever again. I pictured plates of brittle chocolate and hot cakes oozing with wine.

"Bathroom?"

“Down the hall to your right,” he whispered.
___

I stumbled clumsily into a bathroom, my bare feet cool and lively over the palace's glassy marble floors. I had followed the thin brown streaks in them, trailing down the hall like delicate veins, leading concurrently into the bathroom. I brought myself before a porcelain sink the color of bone. The thing seemed to bleed into the scarlet tiles behind, under the two faucets nearing it. Both of them were this slippery argent color. I turned one on and tossed a cold lap of water on my face. A dark tousle of hair fell into my eyes and I brushed it away, my heart pulling in sharp palpitations beneath my ribs.

The reflection glaring back at me was the sharpest one I had ever seen. The image of my eyes that it rendered back was full and elaborate. I watched the water flow from my face, dribbling down my neck and seeping into my silk nightgown, truly a flimsy little thing. I noticed my face had this peculiar depth to it, dark and hazy features emblazoning my skin, this creamy shade of nut-brown. For once, I felt happy with myself. I was so used to staring through the blurry pelts of lakes and streams.

I tossed a warm lap of water onto my face and turned off the faucet. My wounds had healed almost completely, all but a single scar on my neck. It was the shade of parchment and no longer tender to the touch. I looked in the mirror and saw the face of a pampered woman, an aristocrat. My skin was still the same freckled shade of auburn and my eyes were still a deep brown, but the darkness under my eyes had faded away and my lips were perfectly smooth. They had done something terrible to me. Perhaps it had been someone of my kind, a sorcerer. But I didn't know anyone could call me a sorcerer.

The more I looked around, the stronger my sense that this was not an ordinary bathroom. In fact, the space felt more divine and saintly than any temple I had ever stepped into. The marble floor shone beneath me as if it were a splendid mirror, and the air was tinged with a faint lemony scent. My eyes became fickle with the sight. This was what I would be presented with every day.

I ran my fingertips along the white palace walls, my nasty, low-born fingertips. Colorful stained-glass windows shone light onto the rug beneath, dappling it with color. When I looked up, my eyes were met with numerous paintings depicting Sephasia’s creation--—Tagas watching Sephis fall into the earth, her prison. Piety seemed to be a recurring theme within the palace. I had been brought up in an Astorgan tribe and knew everything about each of the gods. They had been our valor, the sources of our joy. 

I kept walking, eventually being met with a large wooden door, about three times my height. I pressed my ear to it curiously. The chirping of birds and gurgling of fountains, I thought, my heart skipping a beat. Mustering all the strength I had left in my measly body, I managed to heave it open to reveal a garden. Or was it a courtyard?

There wasn't a single flower or plant left untrimmed and not grown to perfection, and there were no weeds or disheveled flora mottled between its slick plates of flagstone. I let the crisp leaves and branches of willows hang squarely above my nose as I walked along the beaten path. The thin offshoots of willow swayed gently in the rich palace winds. To my left, there lay a boundless patch of golden asters. I had never seen an aster before. I hadn’t seen any domesticated plants, for that matter. And the smell was ravishing. It was breathless.

"You shouldn't be here."

I turned and saw a guy slip his hand into his pocket, a book clasped under his other. He looked as if he hadn’t slept in days. His fingers were stroking the cover of his book nervously. "Listen," he said, scoffing, "people will start to suspect something if you wander around the palace like this." He gestured toward the mark on my arm as if it were a threat. “If I were you, I’d stay inside.” His voice was stark, like he had caught a cold. I wondered if he was sick.

The garden’s wind and lazy strokes of green seemed to be swaying with his every breath. His hair was the shade of warm caramel, but was tousled and unkempt. A cloud of heavy gray lingered beneath his eyes. I opened my mouth to speak, but my gaze latched onto a similar brand on the back of his palm.

“What’s that thing you’ve got there,” I asked. “On your hand.”

He pursed his lips together. “It’s my brand. It’s what makes us Moria’s Underlings.” My eyes started grazing the patterns on my own forearm, watching the way the lines wove in and out of one another like lashes of flame. His was the same, just slightly different. His eyes narrowed suddenly. “Wait a minute. So you’re the fourth one.” I didn’t say anything for a moment. I simply regarded him. “Are you one as well?” I asked finally. He gave a slow nod.

“Have you met the others yet?”

“No.”

He tilted his head up as if trying to recall something. Then, he brought his finger up to his lips and grinned. “Follow me.”

I was led through the garden, letting my nostrils catch the scents of honey and thyme, and through a series of multifoil arches, until we approached a small hut. It was situated on a gentle slope of tall grass. Blades of it brushed against the sides of the structure, making it look like a mere part of the earth.

I heard a soft bustle of laughs and conversations coming from inside the hut. I noticed a small sign by its door reading, The Lion’s Eye. “This, my friend, is where we eat,” he told me, creaking the wooden door open. It was a diner, I quickly realized. The interior was lit dimly with wax candles and it smelled sweetly of gourd. The sound of clashing silverware and loud conversations consumed my ears.

“Vincent,” thundered a deep voice. I whipped my head around and saw the guy from earlier wrap his arm around another. “Who’s that girl over there?” The other guy grunted, gesturing over to me. I said nothing. He looked like a typical easterner, with pale skin and heavy folds over his eyes. His eyes had a playful glint to them.

“Lady, this is Marcus,” Vincent introduced, grinning. “Marcus, this is the Underling I found in the courtyard.” I smiled sheepishly. “Zoya,” I told him, extending my arm. Marcus shook it hesitantly. I glanced at Vincent, whose face grew slightly pale, but he blinked it away like it was nothing.

We sat ourselves down at a wooden table that reminded me of the seaside convenience store. The thought appalled me, now that I was here. I ran my hand over its surface, which was uneven and gaunt. It suddenly came to me that I was still draped in the robe from earlier. Underneath that, I was wearing yesterday’s clothing, which still smelled faintly of char.

Vincent set his book down on the table. As soon as he did, a checkered tablecloth flew over swiftly and draped itself over it. My eyes widened in awe; I had never seen an act of sorcery before.

“Tell me, Zoya,” he began, taking a sip from his water glass, “how did Moira find you?” My eyes narrowed. He spoke like he was trying to conceal his true intent. I didn’t think too much of it, as I simply shrugged and thought of an answer to his question. But to be frank, I had no clue. All I remembered was dying and opening my eyes to clean palace walls. “I remember blacking out, that’s all,” I decided to say. Marcus stirred his water with a straw, the ice cubes inside making a light jingling noise. “I cannot believe,” he took a sip, “that there’s actually another one.”

Vincent snorted. “You actually thought there were three?” He jeered, laying out a piece of cloth over his lap. It didn't seem like he needed to. We were in a queer diner, not a four star restaurant.

“Hello Vincent, Marcus, and lady,” called a shrilling voice. Where was it coming from? I looked to my left, and there was no one there. “Three avocado sandwiches, please,” said Vincent lazily, whose gaze swooped downward. I realized, then, that an elf was asking for our orders. He was half my height and his ears were pointed like the rumors had told. He was tiny, yet had eyes that bulged out of his head.

I had never seen one before. I felt as though I had been living in a secluded cave for the past fifteen years. “I’ll have a plain milkshake, thanks.” The elf regarded me briefly and then started off to the kitchen. I suddenly felt very awkward.

“The king spoke of a victory celebration party for a couple members of our military,” said Marcus, his tone heavy. His gaze was fixed on his water glass. He didn’t look hungry, if anything. I watched Vincent wrinkle his nose, his hands spread over the checkered tablecloth. “What party?” He asked.

“I don’t know. I just hope Thalia and Jamal—” Marcus’s voice was cut off and he smiled smartly at Vincent, whose lips were pursed. I watched them both intently. “What?” asked Vincent, his voice stale. Marcus watched Vincent’s cheeks flush. “Nothing.”

His features eased. “Maybe I’ll get Nikolai to talk to a girl, for once.”

“Who’s Nikolai?” I interjected. As soon as the words had left my lips, I became suddenly aware of my heavy southern accent. I started hating the sharp and crooked structure of my vowels. The two of them looked at me, surprised, like they could not believe the words that came out of my mouth.

“Nikolai Saeki. Have you not heard of him?” Marcus asked, his hand stroking his chin curiously. The name rang a bell. I thought of the rebellion at Blacksand.

“No.”

They exchanged looks, making my stomach churn. It had been made clear that I was an outsider. “He’s, like, the ambassador for Astor,” Marcus explained. “He makes really important decisions and is also an Underling like you guys…” his voice trailed off when Vincent looked away sheepishly. “He’s also known to us as the guy who every girl fawns over at the first glance.” Vincent rolled his eyes. I wanted myself to laugh, but couldn’t.

“How long have you guys stayed in the palace for?” I mustered the courage to ask.

“My whole life,” Marcus blurted out. “I was literally born in the military village.” He tilted his head to the side lazily. “Oh that reminds me, Zoya, have you heard the gossip about the queen?”

I winced, knowing I’d feel like an intruder if I listened. But I guess I was a little curious. “Queen Fala’s dad is Tagas himself,” said Vincent with a sigh. He said those words with confidence, like he put faith into the idea that the gossip was true. Tagas was a deity, not a human. I couldn't get myself to believe what he just spat out.

“And her mother was a former priestess of Sephis. She died mysteriously after the queen was born,” he stated matter-of-factly. He took in a large sip of water and his teeth clattered with the sound of ice being smashed to bits. “I think our food is here.” An elf strode over to our table, the silvery spread of a food platter covering her palms. She looked surprised, almost. The elf nodded as I slid it onto our table, turning away as soon as my finger touched its metallic rim.

I guess I had been expecting more from a diner within the palace grounds, but the sandwiches seemed like regular sandwiches. They were served with hot soup and a loaf of soft bread. My face was met with wet steam as I brought a spoonful of it to my lips. It was warm and tasted like herbs. I couldn’t remember the last time I had a bite of decent-tasting food.

“What would your surname be, Zoya?” Vincent asked all of a sudden, his eyebrow coking upward. His hands were toying with his compass and his gaze was swept down under the table. I looked away from them awkwardly, trying to think of a reason why he would ask. 

“Goswell. I’m Zoya Goswell.”

And then there was that look of shock, his expression bursting with life. It was like a match was struck in his head and sent white-hot embers trickling through his veins. I watched Vincent’s hand travel down to his belt, his fingers finally settling over the leather husk of a blade. It made me furious for a reason I could not put into words. “What, am I a threat to you?” I asked, my palm smashing against the table.

Vincent rubbed his eye. “This is a private matter. It has nothing to do with you, I promise—” I saw small, elf-like heads turn and tilt to perhaps watch us brawl on the carpet. 

“Don’t kill me. Please.”

“I don’t want to kill you…” Vincent’s voice trailed off as his eyes grazed over my expression. “I have to talk to someone,” he muttered. He then stood himself up, his chair creaking inexplicably, and stormed out of the diner. “Wait!” Marcus shouted. But Vincent only slammed the door behind him without a second glance.

Exchanging uneasy looks, Marcus and I sunk into our seats and decided to finish our meals in silence. That's how I ended up spending the rest of the evening, realizing that I was not the hunter, but the hunted.

As I was pacing back to my quarters, my eyes caught on to a familiar face. His sharp, eastern eyes were fixed on a leather briefcase. He looked like he was in a rush, cramming his bag with items and peculiar glowing rocks. I could name the two he was holding—houndite and blue jasper. “What are you up to?” I mustered the courage to ask. The man paused and looked at me. My eyes widened.

The kind rebel at Blacksand. Nikolai Saeki.

“Who are you?” He asked, dropping his belongings and getting to his feet. The man’s black and beady eyes tapered sharply as he studied me, who was draped in scarlet finery and smiling nervously back into his firm gaze. “Zoya Goswell,” I stammered, my voice a croak. His eyelids lifted with surprise and then relaxed a little.

“Do I know you?” The man asked, his scuffed feet pacing steadily towards me. He spoke with the thick and firm accent of an aristocrat. I backed away, pink roses blossoming over my cheeks as I struggled to fit together a well-rounded sentence. “Well, did you happen to be in Blacksand, by any chance?” I watch him grasp and digest the question.

There was a pause. “Yes.” He answered with hesitation, like I had stumbled upon a well-kept secret of his.

It was then when his beauty struck me like the point of a spear. His eyes, though narrowed, glistened with a kind and tender haze. His hair was jet-black and fell over his eyes in princely locks. “Well, I don’t know. I was wondering what you were doing.” I decided not to implore about it further, gesturing to his leather briefcase. It was dark and seemed to be textured heavily. The case was almost darker than the man’s hair.

“Please leave, Zoya Goswell.”

It dawned on me that his arm was, too, branded. “I’m sorry,” I stammered, turning myself back around and listening to his door creaking shut.

